
Furthermore David the king said unto all the congregation, Solomon my son, whom alone God hath chosen,  young and tender, and the work  great: for the palace  not for man, but for the  God.
Now I have prepared with all my might for the house of my God the gold for  of gold, and the silver for  of silver, and the brass for  of brass, the iron for  of iron, and wood for  of wood; onyx stones, and  to be set, glistering stones, and of divers colours, and all manner of precious stones, and marble stones in abundance.
Moreover, because I have set my affection to the house of my God, I have of mine own proper good, of gold and silver,  I have given to the house of my God, over and above all that I have prepared for the holy house,
 three thousand talents of gold, of the gold of Ophir, and seven thousand talents of refined silver, to overlay the walls of the houses 
The gold for  of gold, and the silver for  of silver, and for all manner of work  by the hands of artificers. And who  is willing to consecrate his service this day unto the ?

Then the chief of the fathers and princes of the tribes of Israel, and the captains of thousands and of hundreds, with the rulers of the king’s work, offered willingly,
And gave for the service of the house of God of gold five thousand talents and ten thousand drams, and of silver ten thousand talents, and of brass eighteen thousand talents, and one hundred thousand talents of iron.
And they with whom  stones were found gave  to the treasure of the house of the , by the hand of Jehiel the Gershonite.
Then the people rejoiced, for that they offered willingly, because with perfect heart they offered willingly to the : and David the king also rejoiced with great joy.
Wherefore David blessed the  before all the congregation: and David said, Blessed  thou,  God of Israel our father, for ever and ever.
Thine, O ,  the greatness, and the power, and the glory, and the victory, and the majesty: for all  in the heaven and in the earth  thine  the kingdom, O , and thou art exalted as head above all.
Both riches and honour  of thee, and thou reignest over all; and in thine hand  power and might; and in thine hand  to make great, and to give strength unto all.
Now therefore, our God, we thank thee, and praise thy glorious name.
But who  I, and what  my people, that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort? for all things  of thee, and of thine own have we given thee.
For we  strangers before thee, and sojourners, as  all our fathers: our days on the earth  as a shadow, and  none abiding.
O  our God, all this store that we have prepared to build thee an house for thine holy name  of thine hand, and  all thine own.
I know also, my God, that thou triest the heart, and hast pleasure in uprightness. As for me, in the uprightness of mine heart I have willingly offered all these things: and now have I seen with joy thy people, which are present here, to offer willingly unto thee.
O  God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel, our fathers, keep this for ever in the imagination of the thoughts of the heart of thy people, and prepare their heart unto thee:
And give unto Solomon my son a perfect heart, to keep thy commandments, thy testimonies, and thy statutes, and to do all  and to build the palace,  the which I have made provision.
And David said to all the congregation, Now bless the  your God. And all the congregation blessed the  God of their fathers, and bowed down their heads, and worshipped the , and the king.
And they sacrificed sacrifices unto the , and offered burnt offerings unto the , on the morrow after that day,  a thousand bullocks, a thousand rams,  a thousand lambs, with their drink offerings, and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel:
And did eat and drink before the  on that day with great gladness. And they made Solomon the son of David king the second time, and anointed  unto the   the chief governor, and Zadok  priest.

Then Solomon sat on the throne of the  as king instead of David his father, and prospered; and all Israel obeyed him.
And all the princes, and the mighty men, and all the sons likewise of king David, submitted themselves unto Solomon the king.
And the  magnified Solomon exceedingly in the sight of all Israel, and bestowed upon him  royal majesty as had not been on any king before him in Israel.
Thus David the son of Jesse reigned over all Israel.
And the time that he reigned over Israel  forty years; seven years reigned he in Hebron, and thirty and three  reigned he in Jerusalem.
And he died in a good old age, full of days, riches, and honour: and Solomon his son reigned in his stead.
Now the acts of David the king, first and last, behold, they  written in the book of Samuel the seer, and in the book of Nathan the prophet, and in the book of Gad the seer,
With all his reign and his might, and the times that went over him, and over Israel, and over all the kingdoms of the countries.
