
Now the children of Israel after their number,  the chief fathers and captains of thousands and hundreds, and their officers that served the king in any matter of the courses, which came in and went out month by month throughout all the months of the year, of every course  twenty and four thousand.
Over the first course for the first month  Jashobeam the son of Zabdiel: and in his course  twenty and four thousand.
Of the children of Perez  the chief of all the captains of the host for the first month.
And over the course of the second month  Dodai an Ahohite, and of his course  Mikloth also the ruler: in his course likewise  twenty and four thousand.
The third captain of the host for the third month  Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, a chief priest: and in his course  twenty and four thousand.
This  Benaiah,  mighty  the thirty, and above the thirty: and in his course  Ammizabad his son.
The fourth  for the fourth month  Asahel the brother of Joab, and Zebadiah his son after him: and in his course  twenty and four thousand.
The fifth captain for the fifth month  Shamhuth the Izrahite: and in his course  twenty and four thousand.
The sixth  for the sixth month  Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite: and in his course  twenty and four thousand.
The seventh  for the seventh month  Helez the Pelonite, of the children of Ephraim: and in his course  twenty and four thousand.
The eighth  for the eighth month  Sibbecai the Hushathite, of the Zarhites: and in his course  twenty and four thousand.
The ninth  for the ninth month  Abiezer the Anetothite, of the Benjamites: and in his course  twenty and four thousand.
The tenth  for the tenth month  Maharai the Netophathite, of the Zarhites: and in his course  twenty and four thousand.
The eleventh  for the eleventh month  Benaiah the Pirathonite, of the children of Ephraim: and in his course  twenty and four thousand.
The twelfth  for the twelfth month  Heldai the Netophathite, of Othniel: and in his course  twenty and four thousand.
Furthermore over the tribes of Israel: the ruler of the Reubenites  Eliezer the son of Zichri: of the Simeonites, Shephatiah the son of Maachah:
Of the Levites, Hashabiah the son of Kemuel: of the Aaronites, Zadok:
Of Judah, Elihu,  of the brethren of David: of Issachar, Omri the son of Michael:
Of Zebulun, Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah: of Naphtali, Jerimoth the son of Azriel:
Of the children of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Azaziah: of the half tribe of Manasseh, Joel the son of Pedaiah:
Of the half  of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo the son of Zechariah: of Benjamin, Jaasiel the son of Abner:
Of Dan, Azareel the son of Jeroham. These  the princes of the tribes of Israel.
But David took not the number of them from twenty years old and under: because the  had said he would increase Israel like to the stars of the heavens.
Joab the son of Zeruiah began to number, but he finished not, because there fell wrath for it against Israel; neither was the number put in the account of the chronicles of king David.
And over the king’s treasures  Azmaveth the son of Adiel: and over the storehouses in the fields, in the cities, and in the villages, and in the castles,  Jehonathan the son of Uzziah:
And over them that did the work of the field for tillage of the ground  Ezri the son of Chelub:
And over the vineyards  Shimei the Ramathite: over the increase of the vineyards for the wine cellars  Zabdi the Shiphmite:
And over the olive trees and the sycomore trees that  in the low plains  Baal-hanan the Gederite: and over the cellars of oil  Joash:
And over the herds that fed in Sharon  Shitrai the Sharonite: and over the herds  in the valleys  Shaphat the son of Adlai:
Over the camels also  Obil the Ishmaelite: and over the asses  Jehdeiah the Meronothite:
And over the flocks  Jaziz the Hagerite. All these  the rulers of the substance which  king David’s.

Also Jonathan David’s uncle was a counsellor, a wise man, and a scribe: and Jehiel the son of Hachmoni  with the king’s sons:
And Ahithophel  the king’s counsellor: and Hushai the Archite  the king’s companion:
And after Ahithophel  Jehoiada the son of Benaiah, and Abiathar: and the general of the king’s army  Joab.
