
And Satan stood up against Israel, and provoked David to number Israel.
And David said to Joab and to the rulers of the people, Go, number Israel from Beer-sheba even to Dan; and bring the number of them to me, that I may know 
And Joab answered, The  make his people an hundred times so many more as they  but, my lord the king,  they not all my lord’s servants? why then doth my lord require this thing? why will he be a cause of trespass to Israel?
Nevertheless the king’s word prevailed against Joab. Wherefore Joab departed, and went throughout all Israel, and came to Jerusalem.
And Joab gave the sum of the number of the people unto David. And all  Israel were a thousand thousand and an hundred thousand men that drew sword: and Judah  four hundred threescore and ten thousand men that drew sword.
But Levi and Benjamin counted he not among them: for the king’s word was abominable to Joab.
And God was displeased with this thing; therefore he smote Israel.
And David said unto God, I have sinned greatly, because I have done this thing: but now, I beseech thee, do away the iniquity of thy servant; for I have done very foolishly.
And the  spake unto Gad, David’s seer, saying,
Go and tell David, saying, Thus saith the , I offer thee three  choose thee one of them, that I may do  unto thee.
So Gad came to David, and said unto him, Thus saith the , Choose thee
Either three years’ famine; or three months to be destroyed before thy foes, while that the sword of thine enemies overtaketh  or else three days the sword of the , even the pestilence, in the land, and the angel of the  destroying throughout all the coasts of Israel. Now therefore advise thyself what word I shall bring again to him that sent me.
And David said unto Gad, I am in a great strait: let me fall now into the hand of the ; for very great  his mercies: but let me not fall into the hand of man.
So the  sent pestilence upon Israel: and there fell of Israel seventy thousand men.
And God sent an angel unto Jerusalem to destroy it: and as he was destroying, the  beheld, and he repented him of the evil, and said to the angel that destroyed, It is enough, stay now thine hand. And the angel of the  stood by the threshingfloor of Ornan the Jebusite.
And David lifted up his eyes, and saw the angel of the  stand between the earth and the heaven, having a drawn sword in his hand stretched out over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders  clothed in sackcloth, fell upon their faces.
And David said unto God,  not I  commanded the people to be numbered? even I it is that have sinned and done evil indeed; but  these sheep, what have they done? let thine hand, I pray thee, O  my God, be on me, and on my father’s house; but not on thy people, that they should be plagued.
Then the angel of the  commanded Gad to say to David, that David should go up, and set up an altar unto the  in the threshingfloor of Ornan the Jebusite.
And David went up at the saying of Gad, which he spake in the name of the .
And Ornan turned back, and saw the angel; and his four sons with him hid themselves. Now Ornan was threshing wheat.
And as David came to Ornan, Ornan looked and saw David, and went out of the threshingfloor, and bowed himself to David with  face to the ground.
Then David said to Ornan, Grant me the place of  threshingfloor, that I may build an altar therein unto the : thou shalt grant it me for the full price: that the plague may be stayed from the people.
And Ornan said unto David, Take  to thee, and let my lord the king do  good in his eyes: lo, I give  the oxen  for burnt offerings, and the threshing instruments for wood, and the wheat for the meat offering; I give it all.
And king David said to Ornan, Nay; but I will verily buy it for the full price: for I will not take  which  thine for the , nor offer burnt offerings without cost.
So David gave to Ornan for the place six hundred shekels of gold by weight.
And David built there an altar unto the , and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings, and called upon the ; and he answered him from heaven by fire upon the altar of burnt offering.
And the  commanded the angel; and he put up his sword again into the sheath thereof.
At that time when David saw that the  had answered him in the threshingfloor of Ornan the Jebusite, then he sacrificed there.
For the tabernacle of the , which Moses made in the wilderness, and the altar of the burnt offering,  at that season in the high place at Gibeon.
But David could not go before it to inquire of God: for he was afraid because of the sword of the angel of the .
