
And David assembled all the princes of Israel, the princes of the tribes, and the captains of the companies that ministered to the king by course, and the captains over the thousands, and captains over the hundreds, and the stewards over all the substance and possession of the king, and of his sons, with the officers, and with the mighty men, and with all the valiant men, unto Jerusalem.
Then David the king stood up upon his feet, and said, Hear me, my brethren, and my people:  I  in mine heart to build an house of rest for the ark of the covenant of the , and for the footstool of our God, and had made ready for the building:
But God said unto me, Thou shalt not build an house for my name, because thou  a man of war, and hast shed blood.
Howbeit the  God of Israel chose me before all the house of my father to be king over Israel for ever: for he hath chosen Judah  the ruler; and of the house of Judah, the house of my father; and among the sons of my father he liked me to make  king over all Israel:
And of all my sons, (for the  hath given me many sons,) he hath chosen Solomon my son to sit upon the throne of the kingdom of the  over Israel.
And he said unto me, Solomon thy son, he shall build my house and my courts: for I have chosen him  my son, and I will be his father.
Moreover I will establish his kingdom for ever, if he be constant to do my commandments and my judgments, as at this day.
Now therefore in the sight of all Israel the congregation of the , and in the audience of our God, keep and seek for all the commandments of the  your God: that ye may possess this good land, and leave  for an inheritance for your children after you for ever.
And thou, Solomon my son, know thou the God of thy father, and serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind: for the  searcheth all hearts, and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts: if thou seek him, he will be found of thee; but if thou forsake him, he will cast thee off for ever.
Take heed now; for the  hath chosen thee to build an house for the sanctuary: be strong, and do 
Then David gave to Solomon his son the pattern of the porch, and of the houses thereof, and of the treasuries thereof, and of the upper chambers thereof, and of the inner parlours thereof, and of the place of the mercy seat,
And the pattern of all that he had by the spirit, of the courts of the house of the , and of all the chambers round about, of the treasuries of the house of God, and of the treasuries of the dedicated things:
Also for the courses of the priests and the Levites, and for all the work of the service of the house of the , and for all the vessels of service in the house of the .
 of gold by weight for  of gold, for all instruments of all manner of service;  for all instruments of silver by weight, for all instruments of every kind of service:
Even the weight for the candlesticks of gold, and for their lamps of gold, by weight for every candlestick, and for the lamps thereof: and for the candlesticks of silver by weight,  for the candlestick, and  for the lamps thereof, according to the use of every candlestick.
And by weight  gold for the tables of shewbread, for every table; and  silver for the tables of silver:
Also pure gold for the fleshhooks, and the bowls, and the cups: and for the golden basins  by weight for every basin; and  by weight for every basin of silver:
And for the altar of incense refined gold by weight; and gold for the pattern of the chariot of the cherubims, that spread out  and covered the ark of the covenant of the .
All  the  made me understand in writing by  hand upon me,  all the works of this pattern.
And David said to Solomon his son, Be strong and of good courage, and do  fear not, nor be dismayed: for the  God,  my God,  with thee; he will not fail thee, nor forsake thee, until thou hast finished all the work for the service of the house of the .
And, behold, the courses of the priests and the Levites,  for all the service of the house of God: and  with thee for all manner of workmanship every willing skilful man, for any manner of service: also the princes and all the people  wholly at thy commandment.
