
But Solomon was building his own house thirteen years, and he finished all his house.
He built also the house of the forest of Lebanon; the length thereof  an hundred cubits, and the breadth thereof fifty cubits, and the height thereof thirty cubits, upon four rows of cedar pillars, with cedar beams upon the pillars.
And  covered with cedar above upon the beams, that  on forty five pillars, fifteen  a row.
And  windows  three rows, and light  against light  three ranks.
And all the doors and posts  square, with the windows: and light  against light  three ranks.
And he made a porch of pillars; the length thereof  fifty cubits, and the breadth thereof thirty cubits: and the porch  before them: and the  pillars and the thick beam  before them.
Then he made a porch for the throne where he might judge,  the porch of judgment: and  covered with cedar from one side of the floor to the other.
And his house where he dwelt  another court within the porch,  was of the like work. Solomon made also an house for Pharaoh’s daughter, whom he had taken  like unto this porch.
All these  costly stones, according to the measures of hewed stones, sawed with saws, within and without, even from the foundation unto the coping, and  on the outside toward the great court.
And the foundation  costly stones, even great stones, stones of ten cubits, and stones of eight cubits.
And above  costly stones, after the measures of hewed stones, and cedars.
And the great court round about  with three rows of hewed stones, and a row of cedar beams, both for the inner court of the house of the , and for the porch of the house.
And king Solomon sent and fetched Hiram out of Tyre.
He  a widow’s son of the tribe of Naphtali, and his father  a man of Tyre, a worker in brass: and he was filled with wisdom, and understanding, and cunning to work all works in brass. And he came to king Solomon, and wrought all his work.
For he cast two pillars of brass, of eighteen cubits high apiece: and a line of twelve cubits did compass either of them about.
And he made two chapiters  molten brass, to set upon the tops of the pillars: the height of the one chapiter  five cubits, and the height of the other chapiter  five cubits:
 nets of checker work, and wreaths of chain work, for the chapiters which  upon the top of the pillars; seven for the one chapiter, and seven for the other chapiter.
And he made the pillars, and two rows round about upon the one network, to cover the chapiters that  upon the top, with pomegranates: and so did he for the other chapiter.
And the chapiters that  upon the top of the pillars  of lily work in the porch, four cubits.
And the chapiters upon the two pillars  also above, over against the belly which  by the network: and the pomegranates  two hundred in rows round about upon the other chapiter.
And he set up the pillars in the porch of the temple: and he set up the right pillar, and called the name thereof Jachin: and he set up the left pillar, and called the name thereof Boaz.
And upon the top of the pillars  lily work: so was the work of the pillars finished.
And he made a molten sea, ten cubits from the one brim to the other:  round all about, and his height  five cubits: and a line of thirty cubits did compass it round about.
And under the brim of it round about  knops compassing it, ten in a cubit, compassing the sea round about: the knops  cast in two rows, when it was cast.
It stood upon twelve oxen, three looking toward the north, and three looking toward the west, and three looking toward the south, and three looking toward the east: and the sea  above upon them, and all their hinder parts  inward.
And it  an hand breadth thick, and the brim thereof was wrought like the brim of a cup, with flowers of lilies: it contained two thousand baths.
And he made ten bases of brass; four cubits  the length of one base, and four cubits the breadth thereof, and three cubits the height of it.
And the work of the bases  on this  they had borders, and the borders  between the ledges:
And on the borders that  between the ledges  lions, oxen, and cherubims: and upon the ledges  a base above: and beneath the lions and oxen  certain additions made of thin work.
And every base had four brasen wheels, and plates of brass: and the four corners thereof had undersetters: under the laver  undersetters molten, at the side of every addition.
And the mouth of it within the chapiter and above  a cubit: but the mouth thereof  round  the work of the base, a cubit and an half: and also upon the mouth of it  gravings with their borders, foursquare, not round.
And under the borders  four wheels; and the axletrees of the wheels  to the base: and the height of a wheel  a cubit and half a cubit.
And the work of the wheels  like the work of a chariot wheel: their axletrees, and their naves, and their felloes, and their spokes,  all molten.
And  four undersetters to the four corners of one base:  the undersetters  of the very base itself.
And in the top of the base  a round compass of half a cubit high: and on the top of the base the ledges thereof and the borders thereof  of the same.
For on the plates of the ledges thereof, and on the borders thereof, he graved cherubims, lions, and palm trees, according to the proportion of every one, and additions round about.
After this  he made the ten bases: all of them had one casting, one measure,  one size.
Then made he ten lavers of brass: one laver contained forty baths:  every laver was four cubits:  upon every one of the ten bases one laver.
And he put five bases on the right side of the house, and five on the left side of the house: and he set the sea on the right side of the house eastward over against the south.
And Hiram made the lavers, and the shovels, and the basins. So Hiram made an end of doing all the work that he made king Solomon for the house of the :
The two pillars, and the  bowls of the chapiters that  on the top of the two pillars; and the two networks, to cover the two bowls of the chapiters which  upon the top of the pillars;
And four hundred pomegranates for the two networks,  two rows of pomegranates for one network, to cover the two bowls of the chapiters that  upon the pillars;
And the ten bases, and ten lavers on the bases;
And one sea, and twelve oxen under the sea;
And the pots, and the shovels, and the basins: and all these vessels, which Hiram made to king Solomon for the house of the ,  bright brass.
In the plain of Jordan did the king cast them, in the clay ground between Succoth and Zarthan.
And Solomon left all the vessels  because they were exceeding many: neither was the weight of the brass found out.
And Solomon made all the vessels that  unto the house of the : the altar of gold, and the table of gold, whereupon the shewbread 
And the candlesticks of pure gold, five on the right  and five on the left, before the oracle, with the flowers, and the lamps, and the tongs  gold,
And the bowls, and the snuffers, and the basins, and the spoons, and the censers  pure gold; and the hinges  gold,  for the doors of the inner house, the most holy  for the doors of the house,  of the temple.
So was ended all the work that king Solomon made for the house of the . And Solomon brought in the things which David his father had dedicated;  the silver, and the gold, and the vessels, did he put among the treasures of the house of the .
