
So king Solomon was king over all Israel.
And these  the princes which he had; Azariah the son of Zadok the priest,
Elihoreph and Ahiah, the sons of Shisha, scribes; Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud, the recorder.
And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada  over the host: and Zadok and Abiathar  the priests:
And Azariah the son of Nathan  over the officers: and Zabud the son of Nathan  principal officer,  the king’s friend:
And Ahishar  over the household: and Adoniram the son of Abda  over the tribute.
And Solomon had twelve officers over all Israel, which provided victuals for the king and his household: each man his month in a year made provision.
And these  their names: The son of Hur, in mount Ephraim:
The son of Dekar, in Makaz, and in Shaalbim, and Beth-shemesh, and Elon-beth-hanan:
The son of Hesed, in Aruboth; to him  Sochoh, and all the land of Hepher:
The son of Abinadab, in all the region of Dor; which had Taphath the daughter of Solomon to wife:
Baana the son of Ahilud;  Taanach and Megiddo, and all Beth-shean, which  by Zartanah beneath Jezreel, from Beth-shean to Abel-meholah,  unto  beyond Jokneam:
The son of Geber, in Ramoth-gilead; to him  the towns of Jair the son of Manasseh, which  in Gilead; to him  the region of Argob, which  in Bashan, threescore great cities with walls and brasen bars:
Ahinadab the son of Iddo  Mahanaim:
Ahimaaz  in Naphtali; he also took Basmath the daughter of Solomon to wife:
Baanah the son of Hushai  in Asher and in Aloth:
Jehoshaphat the son of Paruah, in Issachar:
Shimei the son of Elah, in Benjamin:
Geber the son of Uri  in the country of Gilead,  the country of Sihon king of the Amorites, and of Og king of Bashan; and  the only officer which  in the land.
Judah and Israel  many, as the sand which  by the sea in multitude, eating and drinking, and making merry.
And Solomon reigned over all kingdoms from the river unto the land of the Philistines, and unto the border of Egypt: they brought presents, and served Solomon all the days of his life.
And Solomon’s provision for one day was thirty measures of fine flour, and threescore measures of meal,
Ten fat oxen, and twenty oxen out of the pastures, and an hundred sheep, beside harts, and roebucks, and fallowdeer, and fatted fowl.
For he had dominion over all  on this side the river, from Tiphsah even to Azzah, over all the kings on this side the river: and he had peace on all sides round about him.
And Judah and Israel dwelt safely, every man under his vine and under his fig tree, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, all the days of Solomon.
And Solomon had forty thousand stalls of horses for his chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen.
And those officers provided victual for king Solomon, and for all that came unto king Solomon’s table, every man in his month: they lacked nothing.
Barley also and straw for the horses and dromedaries brought they unto the place where  were, every man according to his charge.
And God gave Solomon wisdom and understanding exceeding much, and largeness of heart, even as the sand that  on the sea shore.
And Solomon’s wisdom excelled the wisdom of all the children of the east country, and all the wisdom of Egypt.
For he was wiser than all men; than Ethan the Ezrahite, and Heman, and Chalcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol: and his fame was in all nations round about.
And he spake three thousand proverbs: and his songs were a thousand and five.
And he spake of trees, from the cedar tree that  in Lebanon even unto the hyssop that springeth out of the wall: he spake also of beasts, and of fowl, and of creeping things, and of fishes.
And there came of all people to hear the wisdom of Solomon, from all kings of the earth, which had heard of his wisdom.
