

And the child Samuel ministered unto the  before Eli. And the word of the  was precious in those days;  no open vision.
And it came to pass at that time, when Eli  laid down in his place, and his eyes began to wax dim,  he could not see;
And ere the lamp of God went out in the temple of the , where the ark of God  and Samuel was laid down 
That the  called Samuel: and he answered, Here  I.
And he ran unto Eli, and said, Here  I; for thou calledst me. And he said, I called not; lie down again. And he went and lay down.
And the  called yet again, Samuel. And Samuel arose and went to Eli, and said, Here  I; for thou didst call me. And he answered, I called not, my son; lie down again.
Now Samuel did not yet know the , neither was the word of the  yet revealed unto him.
And the  called Samuel again the third time. And he arose and went to Eli, and said, Here  I; for thou didst call me. And Eli perceived that the  had called the child.
Therefore Eli said unto Samuel, Go, lie down: and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, ; for thy servant heareth. So Samuel went and lay down in his place.
And the  came, and stood, and called as at other times, Samuel, Samuel. Then Samuel answered, Speak; for thy servant heareth.
And the  said to Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, at which both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle.
In that day I will perform against Eli all  which I have spoken concerning his house: when I begin, I will also make an end.
For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever for the iniquity which he knoweth; because his sons made themselves vile, and he restrained them not.
And therefore I have sworn unto the house of Eli, that the iniquity of Eli’s house shall not be purged with sacrifice nor offering for ever.
And Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of the . And Samuel feared to shew Eli the vision.
Then Eli called Samuel, and said, Samuel, my son. And he answered, Here  I.
And he said, What  the thing that  hath said unto thee? I pray thee hide  not from me: God do so to thee, and more also, if thou hide  thing from me of all the things that he said unto thee.
And Samuel told him every whit, and hid nothing from him. And he said, It  the : let him do what seemeth him good.
And Samuel grew, and the  was with him, and did let none of his words fall to the ground.
And all Israel from Dan even to Beer-sheba knew that Samuel  established  a prophet of the .
And the  appeared again in Shiloh: for the  revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of the .
