
Hezekiah began to reign  five and twenty years old, and he reigned nine and twenty years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name  Abijah, the daughter of Zechariah.
And he did  right in the sight of the , according to all that David his father had done.
He in the first year of his reign, in the first month, opened the doors of the house of the , and repaired them.
And he brought in the priests and the Levites, and gathered them together into the east street,
And said unto them, Hear me, ye Levites, sanctify now yourselves, and sanctify the house of the  God of your fathers, and carry forth the filthiness out of the holy 
For our fathers have trespassed, and done  evil in the eyes of the  our God, and have forsaken him, and have turned away their faces from the habitation of the , and turned  backs.

Also they have shut up the doors of the porch, and put out the lamps, and have not burned incense nor offered burnt offerings in the holy  unto the God of Israel.
Wherefore the wrath of the  was upon Judah and Jerusalem, and he hath delivered them to trouble, to astonishment, and to hissing, as ye see with your eyes.
For, lo, our fathers have fallen by the sword, and our sons and our daughters and our wives  in captivity for this.
Now  in mine heart to make a covenant with the  God of Israel, that his fierce wrath may turn away from us.
My sons, be not now negligent: for the  hath chosen you to stand before him, to serve him, and that ye should minister unto him, and burn incense.
Then the Levites arose, Mahath the son of Amasai, and Joel the son of Azariah, of the sons of the Kohathites: and of the sons of Merari, Kish the son of Abdi, and Azariah the son of Jehalelel: and of the Gershonites; Joah the son of Zimmah, and Eden the son of Joah:
And of the sons of Elizaphan; Shimri, and Jeiel: and of the sons of Asaph; Zechariah, and Mattaniah:
And of the sons of Heman; Jehiel, and Shimei: and of the sons of Jeduthun; Shemaiah, and Uzziel.
And they gathered their brethren, and sanctified themselves, and came, according to the commandment of the king, by the words of the , to cleanse the house of the .
And the priests went into the inner part of the house of the , to cleanse  and brought out all the uncleanness that they found in the temple of the  into the court of the house of the . And the Levites took  to carry  out abroad into the brook Kidron.
Now they began on the first  of the first month to sanctify, and on the eighth day of the month came they to the porch of the : so they sanctified the house of the  in eight days; and in the sixteenth day of the first month they made an end.
Then they went in to Hezekiah the king, and said, We have cleansed all the house of the , and the altar of burnt offering, with all the vessels thereof, and the shewbread table, with all the vessels thereof.
Moreover all the vessels, which king Ahaz in his reign did cast away in his transgression, have we prepared and sanctified, and, behold, they  before the altar of the .
Then Hezekiah the king rose early, and gathered the rulers of the city, and went up to the house of the .
And they brought seven bullocks, and seven rams, and seven lambs, and seven he goats, for a sin offering for the kingdom, and for the sanctuary, and for Judah. And he commanded the priests the sons of Aaron to offer  on the altar of the .
So they killed the bullocks, and the priests received the blood, and sprinkled  on the altar: likewise, when they had killed the rams, they sprinkled the blood upon the altar: they killed also the lambs, and they sprinkled the blood upon the altar.
And they brought forth the he goats  the sin offering before the king and the congregation; and they laid their hands upon them:
And the priests killed them, and they made reconciliation with their blood upon the altar, to make an atonement for all Israel: for the king commanded  the burnt offering and the sin offering  for all Israel.
And he set the Levites in the house of the  with cymbals, with psalteries, and with harps, according to the commandment of David, and of Gad the king’s seer, and Nathan the prophet: for  the commandment of the  by his prophets.
And the Levites stood with the instruments of David, and the priests with the trumpets.
And Hezekiah commanded to offer the burnt offering upon the altar. And when the burnt offering began, the song of the  began  with the trumpets, and with the instruments  by David king of Israel.
And all the congregation worshipped, and the singers sang, and the trumpeters sounded:  all  until the burnt offering was finished.
And when they had made an end of offering, the king and all that were present with him bowed themselves, and worshipped.
Moreover Hezekiah the king and the princes commanded the Levites to sing praise unto the  with the words of David, and of Asaph the seer. And they sang praises with gladness, and they bowed their heads and worshipped.
Then Hezekiah answered and said, Now ye have consecrated yourselves unto the , come near and bring sacrifices and thank offerings into the house of the . And the congregation brought in sacrifices and thank offerings; and as many as were of a free heart burnt offerings.
And the number of the burnt offerings, which the congregation brought, was threescore and ten bullocks, an hundred rams,  two hundred lambs: all these  for a burnt offering to the .
And the consecrated things  six hundred oxen and three thousand sheep.
But the priests were too few, so that they could not flay all the burnt offerings: wherefore their brethren the Levites did help them, till the work was ended, and until the  priests had sanctified themselves: for the Levites  more upright in heart to sanctify themselves than the priests.
And also the burnt offerings  in abundance, with the fat of the peace offerings, and the drink offerings for  burnt offering. So the service of the house of the  was set in order.
And Hezekiah rejoiced, and all the people, that God had prepared the people: for the thing was  suddenly.
