
Thus all the work that Solomon made for the house of the  was finished: and Solomon brought in  the things that David his father had dedicated; and the silver, and the gold, and all the instruments, put he among the treasures of the house of God.
Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel, and all the heads of the tribes, the chief of the fathers of the children of Israel, unto Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of the covenant of the  out of the city of David, which  Zion.
Wherefore all the men of Israel assembled themselves unto the king in the feast which  in the seventh month.
And all the elders of Israel came; and the Levites took up the ark.
And they brought up the ark, and the tabernacle of the congregation, and all the holy vessels that  in the tabernacle, these did the priests  the Levites bring up.
Also king Solomon, and all the congregation of Israel that were assembled unto him before the ark, sacrificed sheep and oxen, which could not be told nor numbered for multitude.
And the priests brought in the ark of the covenant of the  unto his place, to the oracle of the house, into the most holy  under the wings of the cherubims:
For the cherubims spread forth  wings over the place of the ark, and the cherubims covered the ark and the staves thereof above.
And they drew out the staves  that the ends of the staves were seen from the ark before the oracle; but they were not seen without. And there it is unto this day.
 nothing in the ark save the two tables which Moses put  at Horeb, when the  made  with the children of Israel, when they came out of Egypt.
And it came to pass, when the priests were come out of the holy  (for all the priests  present were sanctified,  did not  wait by course:
Also the Levites  the singers, all of them of Asaph, of Heman, of Jeduthun, with their sons and their brethren,  arrayed in white linen, having cymbals and psalteries and harps, stood at the east end of the altar, and with them an hundred and twenty priests sounding with trumpets:)
It came even to pass, as the trumpeters and singers  as one, to make one sound to be heard in praising and thanking the ; and when they lifted up  voice with the trumpets and cymbals and instruments of musick, and praised the ,  For  good; for his mercy  for ever: that  the house was filled with a cloud,  the house of the ;
So that the priests could not stand to minister by reason of the cloud: for the glory of the  had filled the house of God.
