
Now Jehoshaphat had riches and honour in abundance, and joined affinity with Ahab.
And after  years he went down to Ahab to Samaria. And Ahab killed sheep and oxen for him in abundance, and for the people that  with him, and persuaded him to go up  to Ramoth-gilead.
And Ahab king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat king of Judah, Wilt thou go with me to Ramoth-gilead? And he answered him, I  as thou  and my people as thy people; and  with thee in the war.
And Jehoshaphat said unto the king of Israel, Inquire, I pray thee, at the word of the  to day.
Therefore the king of Israel gathered together of prophets four hundred men, and said unto them, Shall we go to Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I forbear? And they said, Go up; for God will deliver  into the king’s hand.
But Jehoshaphat said,  not here a prophet of the  besides, that we might inquire of him?
And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat,  yet one man, by whom we may inquire of the : but I hate him; for he never prophesied good unto me, but always evil: the same  Micaiah the son of Imla. And Jehoshaphat said, Let not the king say so.
And the king of Israel called for one  officers, and said, Fetch quickly Micaiah the son of Imla.
And the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah sat either of them on his throne, clothed in  robes, and they sat in a void place at the entering in of the gate of Samaria; and all the prophets prophesied before them.
And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah had made him horns of iron, and said, Thus saith the , With these thou shalt push Syria until they be consumed.
And all the prophets prophesied so, saying, Go up to Ramoth-gilead, and prosper: for the  shall deliver  into the hand of the king.
And the messenger that went to call Micaiah spake to him, saying, Behold, the words of the prophets  good to the king with one assent; let thy word therefore, I pray thee, be like one of theirs, and speak thou good.
And Micaiah said,  the  liveth, even what my God saith, that will I speak.
And when he was come to the king, the king said unto him, Micaiah, shall we go to Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I forbear? And he said, Go ye up, and prosper, and they shall be delivered into your hand.
And the king said to him, How many times shall I adjure thee that thou say nothing but the truth to me in the name of the ?
Then he said, I did see all Israel scattered upon the mountains, as sheep that have no shepherd: and the  said, These have no master; let them return  every man to his house in peace.
And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, Did I not tell thee  he would not prophesy good unto me, but evil?
Again he said, Therefore hear the word of the ; I saw the  sitting upon his throne, and all the host of heaven standing on his right hand and  his left.
And the  said, Who shall entice Ahab king of Israel, that he may go up and fall at Ramoth-gilead? And one spake saying after this manner, and another saying after that manner.
Then there came out a spirit, and stood before the , and said, I will entice him. And the  said unto him, Wherewith?
And he said, I will go out, and be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. And  said, Thou shalt entice  and thou shalt also prevail: go out, and do  so.
Now therefore, behold, the  hath put a lying spirit in the mouth of these thy prophets, and the  hath spoken evil against thee.
Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near, and smote Micaiah upon the cheek, and said, Which way went the Spirit of the  from me to speak unto thee?
And Micaiah said, Behold, thou shalt see on that day when thou shalt go into an inner chamber to hide thyself.
Then the king of Israel said, Take ye Micaiah, and carry him back to Amon the governor of the city, and to Joash the king’s son;
And say, Thus saith the king, Put this  in the prison, and feed him with bread of affliction and with water of affliction, until I return in peace.
And Micaiah said, If thou certainly return in peace,  hath not the  spoken by me. And he said, Hearken, all ye people.
So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up to Ramoth-gilead.
And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, I will disguise myself, and will go to the battle; but put thou on thy robes. So the king of Israel disguised himself; and they went to the battle.
Now the king of Syria had commanded the captains of the chariots that  with him, saying, Fight ye not with small or great, save only with the king of Israel.
And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, that they said, It  the king of Israel. Therefore they compassed about him to fight: but Jehoshaphat cried out, and the  helped him; and God moved them  from him.
For it came to pass, that, when the captains of the chariots perceived that it was not the king of Israel, they turned back again from pursuing him.
And a  man drew a bow at a venture, and smote the king of Israel between the joints of the harness: therefore he said to his chariot man, Turn thine hand, that thou mayest carry me out of the host; for I am wounded.
And the battle increased that day: howbeit the king of Israel stayed  up in  chariot against the Syrians until the even: and about the time of the sun going down he died.
