
Again, David gathered together all  chosen  of Israel, thirty thousand.
And David arose, and went with all the people that  with him from Baale of Judah, to bring up from thence the ark of God, whose name is called by the name of the  of hosts that dwelleth  the cherubims.
And they set the ark of God upon a new cart, and brought it out of the house of Abinadab that  in Gibeah: and Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, drave the new cart.
And they brought it out of the house of Abinadab which  at Gibeah, accompanying the ark of God: and Ahio went before the ark.
And David and all the house of Israel played before the  on all manner of  fir wood, even on harps, and on psalteries, and on timbrels, and on cornets, and on cymbals.
And when they came to Nachon’s threshingfloor, Uzzah put forth  to the ark of God, and took hold of it; for the oxen shook 
And the anger of the  was kindled against Uzzah; and God smote him there for  error; and there he died by the ark of God.
And David was displeased, because the  had made a breach upon Uzzah: and he called the name of the place Perez-uzzah to this day.
And David was afraid of the  that day, and said, How shall the ark of the  come to me?
So David would not remove the ark of the  unto him into the city of David: but David carried it aside into the house of Obed-edom the Gittite.
And the ark of the  continued in the house of Obed-edom the Gittite three months: and the  blessed Obed-edom, and all his household.
And it was told king David, saying, The  hath blessed the house of Obed-edom, and all that  unto him, because of the ark of God. So David went and brought up the ark of God from the house of Obed-edom into the city of David with gladness.
And it was  that when they that bare the ark of the  had gone six paces, he sacrificed oxen and fatlings.
And David danced before the  with all  might; and David  girded with a linen ephod.
So David and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of the  with shouting, and with the sound of the trumpet.
And as the ark of the  came into the city of David, Michal Saul’s daughter looked through a window, and saw king David leaping and dancing before the ; and she despised him in her heart.
And they brought in the ark of the , and set it in his place, in the midst of the tabernacle that David had pitched for it: and David offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the .
And as soon as David had made an end of offering burnt offerings and peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the  of hosts.
And he dealt among all the people,  among the whole multitude of Israel, as well to the women as men, to every one a cake of bread, and a good piece  and a flagon  So all the people departed every one to his house.
Then David returned to bless his household. And Michal the daughter of Saul came out to meet David, and said, How glorious was the king of Israel to day, who uncovered himself to day in the eyes of the handmaids of his servants, as one of the vain fellows shamelessly uncovereth himself!
And David said unto Michal,  before the , which chose me before thy father, and before all his house, to appoint me ruler over the people of the , over Israel: therefore will I play before the .
And I will yet be more vile than thus, and will be base in mine own sight: and of the maidservants which thou hast spoken of, of them shall I be had in honour.
Therefore Michal the daughter of Saul had no child unto the day of her death.
