
And after this it came to pass, that David smote the Philistines, and subdued them: and David took Metheg-ammah out of the hand of the Philistines.
And he smote Moab, and measured them with a line, casting them down to the ground; even with two lines measured he to put to death, and with one full line to keep alive. And  the Moabites became David’s servants,  brought gifts.
David smote also Hadadezer, the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, as he went to recover his border at the river Euphrates.
And David took from him a thousand  and seven hundred horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen: and David houghed all the chariot  but reserved of them  an hundred chariots.
And when the Syrians of Damascus came to succour Hadadezer king of Zobah, David slew of the Syrians two and twenty thousand men.
Then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus: and the Syrians became servants to David,  brought gifts. And the  preserved David whithersoever he went.
And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem.
And from Betah, and from Berothai, cities of Hadadezer, king David took exceeding much brass.
When Toi king of Hamath heard that David had smitten all the host of Hadadezer,
Then Toi sent Joram his son unto king David, to salute him, and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer, and smitten him: for Hadadezer had wars with Toi. And  brought with him vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and vessels of brass:
Which also king David did dedicate unto the , with the silver and gold that he had dedicated of all nations which he subdued;
Of Syria, and of Moab, and of the children of Ammon, and of the Philistines, and of Amalek, and of the spoil of Hadadezer, son of Rehob, king of Zobah.
And David gat  a name when he returned from smiting of the Syrians in the valley of salt,  eighteen thousand 
And he put garrisons in Edom; throughout all Edom put he garrisons, and all they of Edom became David’s servants. And the  preserved David whithersoever he went.
And David reigned over all Israel; and David executed judgment and justice unto all his people.
And Joab the son of Zeruiah  over the host; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud  recorder;
And Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar,  the priests; and Seraiah  the scribe;
And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada  both the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and David’s sons were chief rulers.
