
At that time the  said unto me, Hew thee two tables of stone like unto the first, and come up unto me into the mount, and make thee an ark of wood.
And I will write on the tables the words that were in the first tables which thou brakest, and thou shalt put them in the ark.
And I made an ark  shittim wood, and hewed two tables of stone like unto the first, and went up into the mount, having the two tables in mine hand.
And he wrote on the tables, according to the first writing, the ten commandments, which the  spake unto you in the mount out of the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly: and the  gave them unto me.
And I turned myself and came down from the mount, and put the tables in the ark which I had made; and there they be, as the  commanded me.
And the children of Israel took their journey from Beeroth of the children of Jaakan to Mosera: there Aaron died, and there he was buried; and Eleazar his son ministered in the priest’s office in his stead.
From thence they journeyed unto Gudgodah; and from Gudgodah to Jotbath, a land of rivers of waters.
At that time the  separated the tribe of Levi, to bear the ark of the covenant of the , to stand before the  to minister unto him, and to bless in his name, unto this day.
Wherefore Levi hath no part nor inheritance with his brethren; the   his inheritance, according as the  thy God promised him.
And I stayed in the mount, according to the first time, forty days and forty nights; and the  hearkened unto me at that time also,  the  would not destroy thee.
And the  said unto me, Arise, take  journey before the people, that they may go in and possess the land, which I sware unto their fathers to give unto them.
And now, Israel, what doth the  thy God require of thee, but to fear the  thy God, to walk in all his ways, and to love him, and to serve the  thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul,
To keep the commandments of the , and his statutes, which I command thee this day for thy good?
Behold, the heaven and the heaven of heavens  the ’s thy God, the earth  with all that therein 
Only the  had a delight in thy fathers to love them, and he chose their seed after them,  you above all people, as  this day.
Circumcise therefore the foreskin of your heart, and be no more stiffnecked.
For the  your God  God of gods, and Lord of lords, a great God, a mighty, and a terrible, which regardeth not persons, nor taketh reward:
He doth execute the judgment of the fatherless and widow, and loveth the stranger, in giving him food and raiment.
Love ye therefore the stranger: for ye were strangers in the land of Egypt.
Thou shalt fear the  thy God; him shalt thou serve, and to him shalt thou cleave, and swear by his name.
He  thy praise, and he  thy God, that hath done for thee these great and terrible things, which thine eyes have seen.
Thy fathers went down into Egypt with threescore and ten persons; and now the  thy God hath made thee as the stars of heaven for multitude.
