
And thou shalt make an altar  shittim wood, five cubits long, and five cubits broad; the altar shall be foursquare: and the height thereof  three cubits.
And thou shalt make the horns of it upon the four corners thereof: his horns shall be of the same: and thou shalt overlay it with brass.
And thou shalt make his pans to receive his ashes, and his shovels, and his basins, and his fleshhooks, and his firepans: all the vessels thereof thou shalt make  brass.
And thou shalt make for it a grate of network  brass; and upon the net shalt thou make four brasen rings in the four corners thereof.
And thou shalt put it under the compass of the altar beneath, that the net may be even to the midst of the altar.
And thou shalt make staves for the altar, staves  shittim wood, and overlay them with brass.
And the staves shall be put into the rings, and the staves shall be upon the two sides of the altar, to bear it.
Hollow with boards shalt thou make it: as it was shewed thee in the mount, so shall they make 
And thou shalt make the court of the tabernacle: for the south side southward  hangings for the court  fine twined linen of an hundred cubits long for one side:
And the twenty pillars thereof and their twenty sockets  brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets  silver.
And likewise for the north side in length  hangings of an hundred  long, and his twenty pillars and their twenty sockets  brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets  silver.
And  the breadth of the court on the west side  hangings of fifty cubits: their pillars ten, and their sockets ten.
And the breadth of the court on the east side eastward  fifty cubits.
The hangings of one side  fifteen cubits: their pillars three, and their sockets three.
And on the other side  hangings fifteen  their pillars three, and their sockets three.
And for the gate of the court  an hanging of twenty cubits,  blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, wrought with needlework:  their pillars  four, and their sockets four.
All the pillars round about the court  filleted with silver; their hooks  silver, and their sockets  brass.
The length of the court  an hundred cubits, and the breadth fifty every where, and the height five cubits  fine twined linen, and their sockets  brass.
All the vessels of the tabernacle in all the service thereof, and all the pins thereof, and all the pins of the court,  brass.
And thou shalt command the children of Israel, that they bring thee pure oil olive beaten for the light, to cause the lamp to burn always.
In the tabernacle of the congregation without the veil, which  before the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall order it from evening to morning before the :  a statute for ever unto their generations on the behalf of the children of Israel.
