
And when the people saw that Moses delayed to come down out of the mount, the people gathered themselves together unto Aaron, and said unto him, Up, make us gods, which shall go before us; for  this Moses, the man that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we wot not what is become of him.
And Aaron said unto them, Break off the golden earrings, which  in the ears of your wives, of your sons, and of your daughters, and bring  unto me.
And all the people brake off the golden earrings which  in their ears, and brought  unto Aaron.
And he received  at their hand, and fashioned it with a graving tool, after he had made it a molten calf: and they said, These  thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt.
And when Aaron saw  he built an altar before it; and Aaron made proclamation, and said, To morrow  a feast to the .
And they rose up early on the morrow, and offered burnt offerings, and brought peace offerings; and the people sat down to eat and to drink, and rose up to play.
And the  said unto Moses, Go, get thee down; for thy people, which thou broughtest out of the land of Egypt, have corrupted 
They have turned aside quickly out of the way which I commanded them: they have made them a molten calf, and have worshipped it, and have sacrificed thereunto, and said, These  thy gods, O Israel, which have brought thee up out of the land of Egypt.
And the  said unto Moses, I have seen this people, and, behold, it  a stiffnecked people:
Now therefore let me alone, that my wrath may wax hot against them, and that I may consume them: and I will make of thee a great nation.
And Moses besought the  his God, and said, , why doth thy wrath wax hot against thy people, which thou hast brought forth out of the land of Egypt with great power, and with a mighty hand?
Wherefore should the Egyptians speak, and say, For mischief did he bring them out, to slay them in the mountains, and to consume them from the face of the earth? Turn from thy fierce wrath, and repent of this evil against thy people.
Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, thy servants, to whom thou swarest by thine own self, and saidst unto them, I will multiply your seed as the stars of heaven, and all this land that I have spoken of will I give unto your seed, and they shall inherit  for ever.
And the  repented of the evil which he thought to do unto his people.
And Moses turned, and went down from the mount, and the two tables of the testimony  in his hand: the tables  written on both their sides; on the one side and on the other  they written.
And the tables  the work of God, and the writing  the writing of God, graven upon the tables.
And when Joshua heard the noise of the people as they shouted, he said unto Moses,  a noise of war in the camp.
And he said,  not the voice of  shout for mastery, neither  the voice of  cry for being overcome:  the noise of  sing do I hear.
And it came to pass, as soon as he came nigh unto the camp, that he saw the calf, and the dancing: and Moses’ anger waxed hot, and he cast the tables out of his hands, and brake them beneath the mount.
And he took the calf which they had made, and burnt  in the fire, and ground  to powder, and strawed  upon the water, and made the children of Israel drink 
And Moses said unto Aaron, What did this people unto thee, that thou hast brought so great a sin upon them?
And Aaron said, Let not the anger of my lord wax hot: thou knowest the people, that they  on mischief.
For they said unto me, Make us gods, which shall go before us: for  this Moses, the man that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we wot not what is become of him.
And I said unto them, Whosoever hath any gold, let them break  off. So they gave  me: then I cast it into the fire, and there came out this calf.
And when Moses saw that the people  naked; (for Aaron had made them naked unto  shame among their enemies:)
Then Moses stood in the gate of the camp, and said, Who  on the ’s side?  unto me. And all the sons of Levi gathered themselves together unto him.
And he said unto them, Thus saith the  God of Israel, Put every man his sword by his side,  go in and out from gate to gate throughout the camp, and slay every man his brother, and every man his companion, and every man his neighbour.
And the children of Levi did according to the word of Moses: and there fell of the people that day about three thousand men.
For Moses had said, Consecrate yourselves to day to the , even every man upon his son, and upon his brother; that he may bestow upon you a blessing this day.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Moses said unto the people, Ye have sinned a great sin: and now I will go up unto the ; peradventure I shall make an atonement for your sin.
And Moses returned unto the , and said, Oh, this people have sinned a great sin, and have made them gods of gold.
Yet now, if thou wilt forgive their sin—; and if not, blot me, I pray thee, out of thy book which thou hast written.
And the  said unto Moses, Whosoever hath sinned against me, him will I blot out of my book.

Therefore now go, lead the people unto  of which I have spoken unto thee: behold, mine Angel shall go before thee: nevertheless in the day when I visit I will visit their sin upon them.
And the  plagued the people, because they made the calf, which Aaron made.
