
Then he brought me forth into the utter court, the way toward the north: and he brought me into the chamber that  over against the separate place, and which  before the building toward the north.
Before the length of an hundred cubits  the north door, and the breadth  fifty cubits.
Over against the twenty  which  for the inner court, and over against the pavement which  for the utter court,  gallery against gallery in three 
And before the chambers  a walk of ten cubits breadth inward, a way of one cubit; and their doors toward the north.
Now the upper chambers  shorter: for the galleries were higher than these, than the lower, and than the middlemost of the building.
For they  in three  but had not pillars as the pillars of the courts: therefore  was straitened more than the lowest and the middlemost from the ground.
And the wall that  without over against the chambers, toward the utter court on the forepart of the chambers, the length thereof  fifty cubits.
For the length of the chambers that  in the utter court  fifty cubits: and, lo, before the temple  an hundred cubits.
And from under these chambers  the entry on the east side, as one goeth into them from the utter court.

The chambers  in the thickness of the wall of the court toward the east, over against the separate place, and over against the building.
And the way before them  like the appearance of the chambers which  toward the north, as long as they,  as broad as they: and all their goings out  both according to their fashions, and according to their doors.
And according to the doors of the chambers that  toward the south  a door in the head of the way,  the way directly before the wall toward the east, as one entereth into them.
Then said he unto me, The north chambers  the south chambers, which  before the separate place, they  holy chambers, where the priests that approach unto the  shall eat the most holy things: there shall they lay the most holy things, and the meat offering, and the sin offering, and the trespass offering; for the place  holy.
When the priests enter therein, then shall they not go out of the holy  into the utter court, but there they shall lay their garments wherein they minister; for they  holy; and shall put on other garments, and shall approach to  which  for the people.
Now when he had made an end of measuring the inner house, he brought me forth toward the gate whose prospect  toward the east, and measured it round about.
He measured the east side with the measuring reed, five hundred reeds, with the measuring reed round about.
He measured the north side, five hundred reeds, with the measuring reed round about.
He measured the south side, five hundred reeds, with the measuring reed.
He turned about to the west side,  measured five hundred reeds with the measuring reed.
He measured it by the four sides: it had a wall round about, five hundred  long, and five hundred broad, to make a separation between the sanctuary and the profane place.
