
Moreover, when ye shall divide by lot the land for inheritance, ye shall offer an oblation unto the , an holy portion of the land: the length  the length of five and twenty thousand  and the breadth  ten thousand. This  holy in all the borders thereof round about.
Of this there shall be for the sanctuary five hundred  with five hundred  square round about; and fifty cubits round about for the suburbs thereof.
And of this measure shalt thou measure the length of five and twenty thousand, and the breadth of ten thousand: and in it shall be the sanctuary  the most holy 
The holy  of the land shall be for the priests the ministers of the sanctuary, which shall come near to minister unto the : and it shall be a place for their houses, and an holy place for the sanctuary.
And the five and twenty thousand of length, and the ten thousand of breadth, shall also the Levites, the ministers of the house, have for themselves, for a possession for twenty chambers.
And ye shall appoint the possession of the city five thousand broad, and five and twenty thousand long, over against the oblation of the holy  it shall be for the whole house of Israel.
And  for the prince on the one side and on the other side of the oblation of the holy  and of the possession of the city, before the oblation of the holy  and before the possession of the city, from the west side westward, and from the east side eastward: and the length  over against one of the portions, from the west border unto the east border.
In the land shall be his possession in Israel: and my princes shall no more oppress my people; and  the land shall they give to the house of Israel according to their tribes.
Thus saith the Lord ; Let it suffice you, O princes of Israel: remove violence and spoil, and execute judgment and justice, take away your exactions from my people, saith the Lord .
Ye shall have just balances, and a just ephah, and a just bath.
The ephah and the bath shall be of one measure, that the bath may contain the tenth part of an homer, and the ephah the tenth part of an homer: the measure thereof shall be after the homer.
And the shekel  twenty gerahs: twenty shekels, five and twenty shekels, fifteen shekels, shall be your maneh.
This  the oblation that ye shall offer; the sixth part of an ephah of an homer of wheat, and ye shall give the sixth part of an ephah of an homer of barley:
Concerning the ordinance of oil, the bath of oil,  the tenth part of a bath out of the cor,  an homer of ten baths; for ten baths  an homer:
And one lamb out of the flock, out of two hundred, out of the fat pastures of Israel; for a meat offering, and for a burnt offering, and for peace offerings, to make reconciliation for them, saith the Lord .
All the people of the land shall give this oblation for the prince in Israel.
And it shall be the prince’s part  burnt offerings, and meat offerings, and drink offerings, in the feasts, and in the new moons, and in the sabbaths, in all solemnities of the house of Israel: he shall prepare the sin offering, and the meat offering, and the burnt offering, and the peace offerings, to make reconciliation for the house of Israel.
Thus saith the Lord ; In the first  in the first  of the month, thou shalt take a young bullock without blemish, and cleanse the sanctuary:
And the priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering, and put  upon the posts of the house, and upon the four corners of the settle of the altar, and upon the posts of the gate of the inner court.
And so thou shalt do the seventh  of the month for every one that erreth, and for  simple: so shall ye reconcile the house.
In the first  in the fourteenth day of the month, ye shall have the passover, a feast of seven days; unleavened bread shall be eaten.
And upon that day shall the prince prepare for himself and for all the people of the land a bullock  a sin offering.
And seven days of the feast he shall prepare a burnt offering to the , seven bullocks and seven rams without blemish daily the seven days; and a kid of the goats daily  a sin offering.
And he shall prepare a meat offering of an ephah for a bullock, and an ephah for a ram, and an hin of oil for an ephah.
In the seventh  in the fifteenth day of the month, shall he do the like in the feast of the seven days, according to the sin offering, according to the burnt offering, and according to the meat offering, and according to the oil.
