
Now it came to pass in the thirtieth year, in the fourth  in the fifth  of the month, as I  among the captives by the river of Chebar,  the heavens were opened, and I saw visions of God.
In the fifth  of the month, which  the fifth year of king Jehoiachin’s captivity,
The word of the  came expressly unto Ezekiel the priest, the son of Buzi, in the land of the Chaldeans by the river Chebar; and the hand of the  was there upon him.
And I looked, and, behold, a whirlwind came out of the north, a great cloud, and a fire infolding itself, and a brightness  about it, and out of the midst thereof as the colour of amber, out of the midst of the fire.
Also out of the midst thereof  the likeness of four living creatures. And this  their appearance; they had the likeness of a man.
And every one had four faces, and every one had four wings.
And their feet  straight feet; and the sole of their feet  like the sole of a calf’s foot: and they sparkled like the colour of burnished brass.
And  the hands of a man under their wings on their four sides; and they four had their faces and their wings.
Their wings  joined one to another; they turned not when they went; they went every one straight forward.
As for the likeness of their faces, they four had the face of a man, and the face of a lion, on the right side: and they four had the face of an ox on the left side; they four also had the face of an eagle.
Thus  their faces: and their wings  stretched upward; two  of every one  joined one to another, and two covered their bodies.
And they went every one straight forward: whither the spirit was to go, they went;  they turned not when they went.
As for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance  like burning coals of fire,  like the appearance of lamps: it went up and down among the living creatures; and the fire was bright, and out of the fire went forth lightning.
And the living creatures ran and returned as the appearance of a flash of lightning.
Now as I beheld the living creatures, behold one wheel upon the earth by the living creatures, with his four faces.
The appearance of the wheels and their work  like unto the colour of a beryl: and they four had one likeness: and their appearance and their work  as it were a wheel in the middle of a wheel.
When they went, they went upon their four sides:  they turned not when they went.
As for their rings, they were so high that they were dreadful; and their rings  full of eyes round about them four.
And when the living creatures went, the wheels went by them: and when the living creatures were lifted up from the earth, the wheels were lifted up.
Whithersoever the spirit was to go, they went, thither  spirit to go; and the wheels were lifted up over against them: for the spirit of the living creature  in the wheels.
When those went,  went; and when those stood,  stood; and when those were lifted up from the earth, the wheels were lifted up over against them: for the spirit of the living creature  in the wheels.
And the likeness of the firmament upon the heads of the living creature  as the colour of the terrible crystal, stretched forth over their heads above.
And under the firmament  their wings straight, the one toward the other: every one had two, which covered on this side, and every one had two, which covered on that side, their bodies.
And when they went, I heard the noise of their wings, like the noise of great waters, as the voice of the Almighty, the voice of speech, as the noise of an host: when they stood, they let down their wings.
And there was a voice from the firmament that  over their heads, when they stood,  had let down their wings.
And above the firmament that  over their heads  the likeness of a throne, as the appearance of a sapphire stone: and upon the likeness of the throne  the likeness as the appearance of a man above upon it.
And I saw as the colour of amber, as the appearance of fire round about within it, from the appearance of his loins even upward, and from the appearance of his loins even downward, I saw as it were the appearance of fire, and it had brightness round about.
As the appearance of the bow that is in the cloud in the day of rain, so  the appearance of the brightness round about. This  the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the . And when I saw  I fell upon my face, and I heard a voice of one that spake.
