
Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them.
And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made; and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made.
And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it: because that in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made.
These  the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created, in the day that the  God made the earth and the heavens,
And every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew: for the  God had not caused it to rain upon the earth, and  not a man to till the ground.
But there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground.
And the  God formed man  the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul.
And the  God planted a garden eastward in Eden; and there he put the man whom he had formed.
And out of the ground made the  God to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food; the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good and evil.
And a river went out of Eden to water the garden; and from thence it was parted, and became into four heads.
The name of the first  Pison: that  it which compasseth the whole land of Havilah, where  gold;
And the gold of that land  good: there  bdellium and the onyx stone.
And the name of the second river  Gihon: the same  it that compasseth the whole land of Ethiopia.
And the name of the third river  Hiddekel: that  it which goeth toward the east of Assyria. And the fourth river  Euphrates.
And the  God took the man, and put him into the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it.
And the  God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat:
But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die.
And the  God said,  not good that the man should be alone; I will make him an help meet for him.
And out of the ground the  God formed every beast of the field, and every fowl of the air; and brought  unto Adam to see what he would call them: and whatsoever Adam called every living creature, that  the name thereof.
And Adam gave names to all cattle, and to the fowl of the air, and to every beast of the field; but for Adam there was not found an help meet for him.
And the  God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept: and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead thereof;
And the rib, which the  God had taken from man, made he a woman, and brought her unto the man.
And Adam said, This  now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh: she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man.
Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh.
And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed.
