
The burden which Habakkuk the prophet did see.
O , how long shall I cry, and thou wilt not hear!  cry out unto thee  violence, and thou wilt not save!
Why dost thou shew me iniquity, and cause  to behold grievance? for spoiling and violence  before me: and there are  raise up strife and contention.
Therefore the law is slacked, and judgment doth never go forth: for the wicked doth compass about the righteous; therefore wrong judgment proceedeth.
Behold ye among the heathen, and regard, and wonder marvellously: for  will work a work in your days,  ye will not believe, though it be told 
For, lo, I raise up the Chaldeans,  bitter and hasty nation, which shall march through the breadth of the land, to possess the dwellingplaces  not theirs.
They  terrible and dreadful: their judgment and their dignity shall proceed of themselves.
Their horses also are swifter than the leopards, and are more fierce than the evening wolves: and their horsemen shall spread themselves, and their horsemen shall come from far; they shall fly as the eagle  hasteth to eat.
They shall come all for violence: their faces shall sup up  the east wind, and they shall gather the captivity as the sand.
And they shall scoff at the kings, and the princes shall be a scorn unto them: they shall deride every strong hold; for they shall heap dust, and take it.
Then shall  mind change, and he shall pass over, and offend,  this his power unto his god.
 thou not from everlasting, O  my God, mine Holy One? we shall not die. O , thou hast ordained them for judgment; and, O mighty God, thou hast established them for correction.
 of purer eyes than to behold evil, and canst not look on iniquity: wherefore lookest thou upon them that deal treacherously,  holdest thy tongue when the wicked devoureth  more righteous than he?
And makest men as the fishes of the sea, as the creeping things,  no ruler over them?
They take up all of them with the angle, they catch them in their net, and gather them in their drag: therefore they rejoice and are glad.
Therefore they sacrifice unto their net, and burn incense unto their drag; because by them their portion  fat, and their meat plenteous.
Shall they therefore empty their net, and not spare continually to slay the nations?
