
Rejoice not, O Israel, for joy, as  people: for thou hast gone a whoring from thy God, thou hast loved a reward upon every cornfloor.
The floor and the winepress shall not feed them, and the new wine shall fail in her.
They shall not dwell in the ’s land; but Ephraim shall return to Egypt, and they shall eat unclean  in Assyria.
They shall not offer wine  to the , neither shall they be pleasing unto him: their sacrifices  unto them as the bread of mourners; all that eat thereof shall be polluted: for their bread for their soul shall not come into the house of the .
What will ye do in the solemn day, and in the day of the feast of the ?
For, lo, they are gone because of destruction: Egypt shall gather them up, Memphis shall bury them: the pleasant  for their silver, nettles shall possess them: thorns  in their tabernacles.
The days of visitation are come, the days of recompence are come; Israel shall know  the prophet  a fool, the spiritual man  mad, for the multitude of thine iniquity, and the great hatred.
The watchman of Ephraim  with my God:  the prophet  a snare of a fowler in all his ways,  hatred in the house of his God.
They have deeply corrupted  as in the days of Gibeah:  he will remember their iniquity, he will visit their sins.
I found Israel like grapes in the wilderness; I saw your fathers as the firstripe in the fig tree at her first time:  they went to Baal-peor, and separated themselves unto  shame; and  abominations were according as they loved.
 Ephraim, their glory shall fly away like a bird, from the birth, and from the womb, and from the conception.
Though they bring up their children, yet will I bereave them,  not  a man  yea, woe also to them when I depart from them!
Ephraim, as I saw Tyrus,  planted in a pleasant place: but Ephraim shall bring forth his children to the murderer.
Give them, O : what wilt thou give? give them a miscarrying womb and dry breasts.
All their wickedness  in Gilgal: for there I hated them: for the wickedness of their doings I will drive them out of mine house, I will love them no more: all their princes  revolters.
Ephraim is smitten, their root is dried up, they shall bear no fruit: yea, though they bring forth, yet will I slay  the beloved  of their womb.
My God will cast them away, because they did not hearken unto him: and they shall be wanderers among the nations.
