
In that day shall this song be sung in the land of Judah; We have a strong city; salvation will  appoint  walls and bulwarks.
Open ye the gates, that the righteous nation which keepeth the truth may enter in.
Thou wilt keep  in perfect peace,  mind  stayed  because he trusteth in thee.
Trust ye in the  for ever: for in the    everlasting strength:
For he bringeth down them that dwell on high; the lofty city, he layeth it low; he layeth it low,  to the ground; he bringeth it  to the dust.
The foot shall tread it down,  the feet of the poor,  the steps of the needy.
The way of the just  uprightness: thou, most upright, dost weigh the path of the just.
Yea, in the way of thy judgments, O , have we waited for thee; the desire of  soul  to thy name, and to the remembrance of thee.
With my soul have I desired thee in the night; yea, with my spirit within me will I seek thee early: for when thy judgments  in the earth, the inhabitants of the world will learn righteousness.
Let favour be shewed to the wicked,  will he not learn righteousness: in the land of uprightness will he deal unjustly, and will not behold the majesty of the .
,  thy hand is lifted up, they will not see:  they shall see, and be ashamed for  envy at the people; yea, the fire of thine enemies shall devour them.
, thou wilt ordain peace for us: for thou also hast wrought all our works in us.
O  our God,  lords beside thee have had dominion over us:  by thee only will we make mention of thy name.
 dead, they shall not live;  deceased, they shall not rise: therefore hast thou visited and destroyed them, and made all their memory to perish.
Thou hast increased the nation, O , thou hast increased the nation: thou art glorified: thou hadst removed  far  all the ends of the earth.
, in trouble have they visited thee, they poured out a prayer  thy chastening  upon them.
Like as a woman with child,  draweth near the time of her delivery, is in pain,  crieth out in her pangs; so have we been in thy sight, O .
We have been with child, we have been in pain, we have as it were brought forth wind; we have not wrought any deliverance in the earth; neither have the inhabitants of the world fallen.
Thy dead  shall live,  my dead body shall they arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in dust: for thy dew  the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast out the dead.
Come, my people, enter thou into thy chambers, and shut thy doors about thee: hide thyself as it were for a little moment, until the indignation be overpast.
For, behold, the  cometh out of his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity: the earth also shall disclose her blood, and shall no more cover her slain.
