
Keep silence before me, O islands; and let the people renew  strength: let them come near; then let them speak: let us come near together to judgment.
Who raised up the righteous  from the east, called him to his foot, gave the nations before him, and made  rule over kings? he gave  as the dust to his sword,  as driven stubble to his bow.
He pursued them,  passed safely;  by the way  he had not gone with his feet.
Who hath wrought and done  calling the generations from the beginning? I the , the first, and with the last; I  he.
The isles saw  and feared; the ends of the earth were afraid, drew near, and came.
They helped every one his neighbour; and  said to his brother, Be of good courage.
So the carpenter encouraged the goldsmith,  he that smootheth  the hammer him that smote the anvil, saying, It  ready for the sodering: and he fastened it with nails,  it should not be moved.
But thou, Israel,  my servant, Jacob whom I have chosen, the seed of Abraham my friend.
 whom I have taken from the ends of the earth, and called thee from the chief men thereof, and said unto thee, Thou  my servant; I have chosen thee, and not cast thee away.
Fear thou not; for I  with thee: be not dismayed; for I  thy God: I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness.
Behold, all they that were incensed against thee shall be ashamed and confounded: they shall be as nothing; and they that strive with thee shall perish.
Thou shalt seek them, and shalt not find them,  them that contended with thee: they that war against thee shall be as nothing, and as a thing of nought.
For I the  thy God will hold thy right hand, saying unto thee, Fear not; I will help thee.
Fear not, thou worm Jacob,  ye men of Israel; I will help thee, saith the , and thy redeemer, the Holy One of Israel.
Behold, I will make thee a new sharp threshing instrument having teeth: thou shalt thresh the mountains, and beat  small, and shalt make the hills as chaff.
Thou shalt fan them, and the wind shall carry them away, and the whirlwind shall scatter them: and thou shalt rejoice in the ,  shalt glory in the Holy One of Israel.
 the poor and needy seek water, and  none,  their tongue faileth for thirst, I the  will hear them,  the God of Israel will not forsake them.
I will open rivers in high places, and fountains in the midst of the valleys: I will make the wilderness a pool of water, and the dry land springs of water.
I will plant in the wilderness the cedar, the shittah tree, and the myrtle, and the oil tree; I will set in the desert the fir tree,  the pine, and the box tree together:
That they may see, and know, and consider, and understand together, that the hand of the  hath done this, and the Holy One of Israel hath created it.
Produce your cause, saith the ; bring forth your strong  saith the King of Jacob.
Let them bring  forth, and shew us what shall happen: let them shew the former things, what they  that we may consider them, and know the latter end of them; or declare us things for to come.
Shew the things that are to come hereafter, that we may know that ye  gods: yea, do good, or do evil, that we may be dismayed, and behold  together.
Behold, ye  of nothing, and your work of nought: an abomination  chooseth you.
I have raised up  from the north, and he shall come: from the rising of the sun shall he call upon my name: and he shall come upon princes as  mortar, and as the potter treadeth clay.
Who hath declared from the beginning, that we may know? and beforetime, that we may say,  righteous? yea,  none that sheweth, yea,  none that declareth, yea,  none that heareth your words.
The first  to Zion, Behold, behold them: and I will give to Jerusalem one that bringeth good tidings.
For I beheld, and  no man; even among them, and  no counsellor, that, when I asked of them, could answer a word.
Behold, they  all vanity; their works  nothing: their molten images  wind and confusion.
