
Yet now hear, O Jacob my servant; and Israel, whom I have chosen:
Thus saith the  that made thee, and formed thee from the womb,  will help thee; Fear not, O Jacob, my servant; and thou, Jesurun, whom I have chosen.
For I will pour water upon him that is thirsty, and floods upon the dry ground: I will pour my spirit upon thy seed, and my blessing upon thine offspring:
And they shall spring up  among the grass, as willows by the water courses.
One shall say, I  the ’s; and another shall call  by the name of Jacob; and another shall subscribe  his hand unto the , and surname  by the name of Israel.
Thus saith the  the King of Israel, and his redeemer the  of hosts; I  the first, and I  the last; and beside me  no God.
And who, as I, shall call, and shall declare it, and set it in order for me, since I appointed the ancient people? and the things that are coming, and shall come, let them shew unto them.
Fear ye not, neither be afraid: have not I told thee from that time, and have declared  ye  even my witnesses. Is there a God beside me? yea,  no God; I know not 
They that make a graven image  all of them vanity; and their delectable things shall not profit; and they  their own witnesses; they see not, nor know; that they may be ashamed.
Who hath formed a god, or molten a graven image  is profitable for nothing?
Behold, all his fellows shall be ashamed: and the workmen, they  of men: let them all be gathered together, let them stand up;  they shall fear,  they shall be ashamed together.
The smith with the tongs both worketh in the coals, and fashioneth it with hammers, and worketh it with the strength of his arms: yea, he is hungry, and his strength faileth: he drinketh no water, and is faint.
The carpenter stretcheth out  rule; he marketh it out with a line; he fitteth it with planes, and he marketh it out with the compass, and maketh it after the figure of a man, according to the beauty of a man; that it may remain in the house.
He heweth him down cedars, and taketh the cypress and the oak, which he strengtheneth for himself among the trees of the forest: he planteth an ash, and the rain doth nourish 
Then shall it be for a man to burn: for he will take thereof, and warm himself; yea, he kindleth  and baketh bread; yea, he maketh a god, and worshippeth  he maketh it a graven image, and falleth down thereto.
He burneth part thereof in the fire; with part thereof he eateth flesh; he roasteth roast, and is satisfied: yea, he warmeth  and saith, Aha, I am warm, I have seen the fire:
And the residue thereof he maketh a god,  his graven image: he falleth down unto it, and worshippeth  and prayeth unto it, and saith, Deliver me; for thou  my god.
They have not known nor understood: for he hath shut their eyes, that they cannot see;  their hearts, that they cannot understand.
And none considereth in his heart, neither  knowledge nor understanding to say, I have burned part of it in the fire; yea, also I have baked bread upon the coals thereof; I have roasted flesh, and eaten  and shall I make the residue thereof an abomination? shall I fall down to the stock of a tree?
He feedeth on ashes: a deceived heart hath turned him aside, that he cannot deliver his soul, nor say,  not a lie in my right hand?
Remember these, O Jacob and Israel; for thou  my servant: I have formed thee; thou  my servant: O Israel, thou shalt not be forgotten of me.
I have blotted out, as a thick cloud, thy transgressions, and, as a cloud, thy sins: return unto me; for I have redeemed thee.
Sing, O ye heavens; for the  hath done  shout, ye lower parts of the earth: break forth into singing, ye mountains, O forest, and every tree therein: for the  hath redeemed Jacob, and glorified himself in Israel.
Thus saith the , thy redeemer, and he that formed thee from the womb, I  the  that maketh all  that stretcheth forth the heavens alone; that spreadeth abroad the earth by myself;
That frustrateth the tokens of the liars, and maketh diviners mad; that turneth wise  backward, and maketh their knowledge foolish;
That confirmeth the word of his servant, and performeth the counsel of his messengers; that saith to Jerusalem, Thou shalt be inhabited; and to the cities of Judah, Ye shall be built, and I will raise up the decayed places thereof:
That saith to the deep, Be dry, and I will dry up thy rivers:
That saith of Cyrus,  my shepherd, and shall perform all my pleasure: even saying to Jerusalem, Thou shalt be built; and to the temple, Thy foundation shall be laid.
