
Hear ye this, O house of Jacob, which are called by the name of Israel, and are come forth out of the waters of Judah, which swear by the name of the , and make mention of the God of Israel,  not in truth, nor in righteousness.
For they call themselves of the holy city, and stay themselves upon the God of Israel; The  of hosts  his name.
I have declared the former things from the beginning; and they went forth out of my mouth, and I shewed them; I did  suddenly, and they came to pass.
Because I knew that thou  obstinate, and thy neck  an iron sinew, and thy brow brass;
I have even from the beginning declared  to thee; before it came to pass I shewed  thee: lest thou shouldest say, Mine idol hath done them, and my graven image, and my molten image, hath commanded them.
Thou hast heard, see all this; and will not ye declare  I have shewed thee new things from this time, even hidden things, and thou didst not know them.
They are created now, and not from the beginning; even before the day when thou heardest them not; lest thou shouldest say, Behold, I knew them.
Yea, thou heardest not; yea, thou knewest not; yea, from that time  thine ear was not opened: for I knew that thou wouldest deal very treacherously, and wast called a transgressor from the womb.
For my name’s sake will I defer mine anger, and for my praise will I refrain for thee, that I cut thee not off.
Behold, I have refined thee, but not with silver; I have chosen thee in the furnace of affliction.
For mine own sake,  for mine own sake, will I do  for how should  be polluted? and I will not give my glory unto another.
Hearken unto me, O Jacob and Israel, my called; I  he; I  the first, I also  the last.
Mine hand also hath laid the foundation of the earth, and my right hand hath spanned the heavens:  I call unto them, they stand up together.
All ye, assemble yourselves, and hear; which among them hath declared these  The  hath loved him: he will do his pleasure on Babylon, and his arm  the Chaldeans.
I,  I, have spoken; yea, I have called him: I have brought him, and he shall make his way prosperous.
Come ye near unto me, hear ye this; I have not spoken in secret from the beginning; from the time that it was, there  I: and now the Lord , and his Spirit, hath sent me.
Thus saith the , thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel; I  the  thy God which teacheth thee to profit, which leadeth thee by the way  thou shouldest go.
O that thou hadst hearkened to my commandments! then had thy peace been as a river, and thy righteousness as the waves of the sea:
Thy seed also had been as the sand, and the offspring of thy bowels like the gravel thereof; his name should not have been cut off nor destroyed from before me.
Go ye forth of Babylon, flee ye from the Chaldeans, with a voice of singing declare ye, tell this, utter it  to the end of the earth; say ye, The  hath redeemed his servant Jacob.
And they thirsted not  he led them through the deserts: he caused the waters to flow out of the rock for them: he clave the rock also, and the waters gushed out.
 no peace, saith the , unto the wicked.
