
Thus saith the , The heaven  my throne, and the earth  my footstool: where  the house that ye build unto me? and where  the place of my rest?
For all those  hath mine hand made, and all those  have been, saith the : but to this  will I look,  to  poor and of a contrite spirit, and trembleth at my word.
He that killeth an ox  he slew a man; he that sacrificeth a lamb,  he cut off a dog’s neck; he that offereth an oblation,  swine’s blood; he that burneth incense,  he blessed an idol. Yea, they have chosen their own ways, and their soul delighteth in their abominations.
I also will choose their delusions, and will bring their fears upon them; because when I called, none did answer; when I spake, they did not hear: but they did evil before mine eyes, and chose  in which I delighted not.
Hear the word of the , ye that tremble at his word; Your brethren that hated you, that cast you out for my name’s sake, said, Let the  be glorified: but he shall appear to your joy, and they shall be ashamed.
A voice of noise from the city, a voice from the temple, a voice of the  that rendereth recompence to his enemies.
Before she travailed, she brought forth; before her pain came, she was delivered of a man child.
Who hath heard such a thing? who hath seen such things? Shall the earth be made to bring forth in one day?  shall a nation be born at once? for as soon as Zion travailed, she brought forth her children.
Shall I bring to the birth, and not cause to bring forth? saith the : shall I cause to bring forth, and shut  saith thy God.
Rejoice ye with Jerusalem, and be glad with her, all ye that love her: rejoice for joy with her, all ye that mourn for her:
That ye may suck, and be satisfied with the breasts of her consolations; that ye may milk out, and be delighted with the abundance of her glory.
For thus saith the , Behold, I will extend peace to her like a river, and the glory of the Gentiles like a flowing stream: then shall ye suck, ye shall be borne upon  sides, and be dandled upon  knees.
As one whom his mother comforteth, so will I comfort you; and ye shall be comforted in Jerusalem.

And when ye see  your heart shall rejoice, and your bones shall flourish like an herb: and the hand of the  shall be known toward his servants, and  indignation toward his enemies.
For, behold, the  will come with fire, and with his chariots like a whirlwind, to render his anger with fury, and his rebuke with flames of fire.
For by fire and by his sword will the  plead with all flesh: and the slain of the  shall be many.
They that sanctify themselves, and purify themselves in the gardens behind one  in the midst, eating swine’s flesh, and the abomination, and the mouse, shall be consumed together, saith the .
For I  their works and their thoughts: it shall come, that I will gather all nations and tongues; and they shall come, and see my glory.
And I will set a sign among them, and I will send those that escape of them unto the nations,  Tarshish, Pul, and Lud, that draw the bow,  Tubal, and Javan,  the isles afar off, that have not heard my fame, neither have seen my glory; and they shall declare my glory among the Gentiles.
And they shall bring all your brethren  an offering unto the  out of all nations upon horses, and in chariots, and in litters, and upon mules, and upon swift beasts, to my holy mountain Jerusalem, saith the , as the children of Israel bring an offering in a clean vessel into the house of the .
And I will also take of them for priests  for Levites, saith the .
For as the new heavens and the new earth, which I will make, shall remain before me, saith the , so shall your seed and your name remain.
And it shall come to pass,  from one new moon to another, and from one sabbath to another, shall all flesh come to worship before me, saith the .
And they shall go forth, and look upon the carcases of the men that have transgressed against me: for their worm shall not die, neither shall their fire be quenched; and they shall be an abhorring unto all flesh.
