
Why, seeing times are not hidden from the Almighty, do they that know him not see his days?
 remove the landmarks; they violently take away flocks, and feed 
They drive away the ass of the fatherless, they take the widow’s ox for a pledge.
They turn the needy out of the way: the poor of the earth hide themselves together.
Behold,  wild asses in the desert, go they forth to their work; rising betimes for a prey: the wilderness  food for them  for  children.
They reap  his corn in the field: and they gather the vintage of the wicked.
They cause the naked to lodge without clothing, that  no covering in the cold.
They are wet with the showers of the mountains, and embrace the rock for want of a shelter.
They pluck the fatherless from the breast, and take a pledge of the poor.
They cause  to go naked without clothing, and they take away the sheaf  the hungry;
 make oil within their walls,  tread  winepresses, and suffer thirst.
Men groan from out of the city, and the soul of the wounded crieth out: yet God layeth not folly 
They are of those that rebel against the light; they know not the ways thereof, nor abide in the paths thereof.
The murderer rising with the light killeth the poor and needy, and in the night is as a thief.
The eye also of the adulterer waiteth for the twilight, saying, No eye shall see me: and disguiseth  face.
In the dark they dig through houses,  they had marked for themselves in the daytime: they know not the light.
For the morning  to them even as the shadow of death: if  know  the terrors of the shadow of death.
He  swift as the waters; their portion is cursed in the earth: he beholdeth not the way of the vineyards.
Drought and heat consume the snow waters:  the grave  have sinned.
The womb shall forget him; the worm shall feed sweetly on him; he shall be no more remembered; and wickedness shall be broken as a tree.
He evil entreateth the barren  beareth not: and doeth not good to the widow.
He draweth also the mighty with his power: he riseth up, and no  is sure of life.
 it be given him  in safety, whereon he resteth; yet his eyes  upon their ways.
They are exalted for a little while, but are gone and brought low; they are taken out of the way as all  and cut off as the tops of the ears of corn.
And if  not  now, who will make me a liar, and make my speech nothing worth?
