
Elihu also proceeded, and said,
Suffer me a little, and I will shew thee that  yet to speak on God’s behalf.
I will fetch my knowledge from afar, and will ascribe righteousness to my Maker.
For truly my words  not  false: he that is perfect in knowledge  with thee.
Behold, God  mighty, and despiseth not  mighty in strength  wisdom.
He preserveth not the life of the wicked: but giveth right to the poor.
He withdraweth not his eyes from the righteous: but with kings  on the throne; yea, he doth establish them for ever, and they are exalted.
And if  bound in fetters,  be holden in cords of affliction;
Then he sheweth them their work, and their transgressions that they have exceeded.
He openeth also their ear to discipline, and commandeth that they return from iniquity.
If they obey and serve  they shall spend their days in prosperity, and their years in pleasures.
But if they obey not, they shall perish by the sword, and they shall die without knowledge.
But the hypocrites in heart heap up wrath: they cry not when he bindeth them.
They die in youth, and their life  among the unclean.
He delivereth the poor in his affliction, and openeth their ears in oppression.
Even so would he have removed thee out of the strait  a broad place, where  no straitness; and that which should be set on thy table  full of fatness.
But thou hast fulfilled the judgment of the wicked: judgment and justice take hold 
Because  wrath,  lest he take thee away with  stroke: then a great ransom cannot deliver thee.
Will he esteem thy riches?  not gold, nor all the forces of strength.
Desire not the night, when people are cut off in their place.
Take heed, regard not iniquity: for this hast thou chosen rather than affliction.
Behold, God exalteth by his power: who teacheth like him?
Who hath enjoined him his way? or who can say, Thou hast wrought iniquity?
Remember that thou magnify his work, which men behold.
Every man may see it; man may behold  afar off.
Behold, God  great, and we know  not, neither can the number of his years be searched out.
For he maketh small the drops of water: they pour down rain according to the vapour thereof:
Which the clouds do drop  distil upon man abundantly.
Also can  understand the spreadings of the clouds,  the noise of his tabernacle?
Behold, he spreadeth his light upon it, and covereth the bottom of the sea.
For by them judgeth he the people; he giveth meat in abundance.
With clouds he covereth the light; and commandeth it  by  that cometh betwixt.
The noise thereof sheweth concerning it, the cattle also concerning the vapour.
