
Furthermore Elihu answered and said,
Hear my words, O ye wise  and give ear unto me, ye that have knowledge.
For the ear trieth words, as the mouth tasteth meat.
Let us choose to us judgment: let us know among ourselves what  good.
For Job hath said, I am righteous: and God hath taken away my judgment.
Should I lie against my right? my wound  incurable without transgression.
What man  like Job,  drinketh up scorning like water?
Which goeth in company with the workers of iniquity, and walketh with wicked men.
For he hath said, It profiteth a man nothing that he should delight himself with God.
Therefore hearken unto me, ye men of understanding: far be it from God,  wickedness; and  the Almighty,  iniquity.
For the work of a man shall he render unto him, and cause every man to find according to  ways.
Yea, surely God will not do wickedly, neither will the Almighty pervert judgment.
Who hath given him a charge over the earth? or who hath disposed the whole world?
If he set his heart upon man,  he gather unto himself his spirit and his breath;
All flesh shall perish together, and man shall turn again unto dust.
If now  understanding, hear this: hearken to the voice of my words.
Shall even he that hateth right govern? and wilt thou condemn him that is most just?
 to say to a king,  wicked?  to princes,  ungodly?
 that accepteth not the persons of princes, nor regardeth the rich more than the poor? for they all  the work of his hands.
In a moment shall they die, and the people shall be troubled at midnight, and pass away: and the mighty shall be taken away without hand.
For his eyes  upon the ways of man, and he seeth all his goings.

 no darkness, nor shadow of death, where the workers of iniquity may hide themselves.
For he will not lay upon man more  that he should enter into judgment with God.
He shall break in pieces mighty men without number, and set others in their stead.
Therefore he knoweth their works, and he overturneth  in the night, so that they are destroyed.
He striketh them as wicked men in the open sight of others;
Because they turned back from him, and would not consider any of his ways:
So that they cause the cry of the poor to come unto him, and he heareth the cry of the afflicted.
When he giveth quietness, who then can make trouble? and when he hideth  face, who then can behold him? whether  against a nation, or against a man only:
That the hypocrite reign not, lest the people be ensnared.
Surely it is meet to be said unto God, I have borne  I will not offend 
 I see not teach thou me: if I have done iniquity, I will do no more.
 according to thy mind? he will recompense it, whether thou refuse, or whether thou choose; and not I: therefore speak what thou knowest.
Let men of understanding tell me, and let a wise man hearken unto me.
Job hath spoken without knowledge, and his words  without wisdom.
My desire  Job may be tried unto the end because of  answers for wicked men.
For he addeth rebellion unto his sin, he clappeth  among us, and multiplieth his words against God.
