
And the  spake unto Moses, saying,
Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them,  the feasts of the , which ye shall proclaim  holy convocations,  these  my feasts.
Six days shall work be done: but the seventh day  the sabbath of rest, an holy convocation; ye shall do no work  it  the sabbath of the  in all your dwellings.
These  the feasts of the ,  holy convocations, which ye shall proclaim in their seasons.
In the fourteenth  of the first month at even  the ’s passover.
And on the fifteenth day of the same month  the feast of unleavened bread unto the : seven days ye must eat unleavened bread.
In the first day ye shall have an holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work therein.
But ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto the  seven days: in the seventh day  an holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work 
And the  spake unto Moses, saying,
Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye be come into the land which I give unto you, and shall reap the harvest thereof, then ye shall bring a sheaf of the firstfruits of your harvest unto the priest:
And he shall wave the sheaf before the , to be accepted for you: on the morrow after the sabbath the priest shall wave it.
And ye shall offer that day when ye wave the sheaf an he lamb without blemish of the first year for a burnt offering unto the .
And the meat offering thereof  two tenth deals of fine flour mingled with oil, an offering made by fire unto the   a sweet savour: and the drink offering thereof  of wine, the fourth  of an hin.
And ye shall eat neither bread, nor parched corn, nor green ears, until the selfsame day that ye have brought an offering unto your God:  a statute for ever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
And ye shall count unto you from the morrow after the sabbath, from the day that ye brought the sheaf of the wave offering; seven sabbaths shall be complete:
Even unto the morrow after the seventh sabbath shall ye number fifty days; and ye shall offer a new meat offering unto the .
Ye shall bring out of your habitations two wave loaves of two tenth deals: they shall be of fine flour; they shall be baken with leaven;  the firstfruits unto the .
And ye shall offer with the bread seven lambs without blemish of the first year, and one young bullock, and two rams: they shall be  a burnt offering unto the , with their meat offering, and their drink offerings,  an offering made by fire, of sweet savour unto the .
Then ye shall sacrifice one kid of the goats for a sin offering, and two lambs of the first year for a sacrifice of peace offerings.
And the priest shall wave them with the bread of the firstfruits  a wave offering before the , with the two lambs: they shall be holy to the  for the priest.
And ye shall proclaim on the selfsame day,  it may be an holy convocation unto you: ye shall do no servile work  a statute for ever in all your dwellings throughout your generations.
And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not make clean riddance of the corners of thy field when thou reapest, neither shalt thou gather any gleaning of thy harvest: thou shalt leave them unto the poor, and to the stranger: I  the  your God.
And the  spake unto Moses, saying,
Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, In the seventh month, in the first  of the month, shall ye have a sabbath, a memorial of blowing of trumpets, an holy convocation.
Ye shall do no servile work  but ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto the .
And the  spake unto Moses, saying,
Also on the tenth  of this seventh month  a day of atonement: it shall be an holy convocation unto you; and ye shall afflict your souls, and offer an offering made by fire unto the .
And ye shall do no work in that same day: for it  a day of atonement, to make an atonement for you before the  your God.
For whatsoever soul  that shall not be afflicted in that same day, he shall be cut off from among his people.
And whatsoever soul  that doeth any work in that same day, the same soul will I destroy from among his people.
Ye shall do no manner of work:  a statute for ever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.

It  unto you a sabbath of rest, and ye shall afflict your souls: in the ninth  of the month at even, from even unto even, shall ye celebrate your sabbath.
And the  spake unto Moses, saying,
Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, The fifteenth day of this seventh month  the feast of tabernacles  seven days unto the .
On the first day  an holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work 
Seven days ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto the : on the eighth day shall be an holy convocation unto you; and ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto the : it  a solemn assembly;  ye shall do no servile work 
These  the feasts of the , which ye shall proclaim  holy convocations, to offer an offering made by fire unto the , a burnt offering, and a meat offering, a sacrifice, and drink offerings, every thing upon his day:
Beside the sabbaths of the , and beside your gifts, and beside all your vows, and beside all your freewill offerings, which ye give unto the .
Also in the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when ye have gathered in the fruit of the land, ye shall keep a feast unto the  seven days: on the first day  a sabbath, and on the eighth day  a sabbath.
And ye shall take you on the first day the boughs of goodly trees, branches of palm trees, and the boughs of thick trees, and willows of the brook; and ye shall rejoice before the  your God seven days.
And ye shall keep it a feast unto the  seven days in the year.  a statute for ever in your generations: ye shall celebrate it in the seventh month.
Ye shall dwell in booths seven days; all that are Israelites born shall dwell in booths:
That your generations may know that I made the children of Israel to dwell in booths, when I brought them out of the land of Egypt: I  the  your God.
And Moses declared unto the children of Israel the feasts of the .
