
And if his oblation  a sacrifice of peace offering, if he offer  of the herd; whether  a male or female, he shall offer it without blemish before the .
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his offering, and kill it  the door of the tabernacle of the congregation: and Aaron’s sons the priests shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar round about.
And he shall offer of the sacrifice of the peace offering an offering made by fire unto the ; the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that  upon the inwards,
And the two kidneys, and the fat that  on them, which  by the flanks, and the caul above the liver, with the kidneys, it shall he take away.
And Aaron’s sons shall burn it on the altar upon the burnt sacrifice, which  upon the wood that  on the fire:  an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the .
And if his offering for a sacrifice of peace offering unto the   of the flock; male or female, he shall offer it without blemish.
If he offer a lamb for his offering, then shall he offer it before the .
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his offering, and kill it before the tabernacle of the congregation: and Aaron’s sons shall sprinkle the blood thereof round about upon the altar.
And he shall offer of the sacrifice of the peace offering an offering made by fire unto the ; the fat thereof,  the whole rump, it shall he take off hard by the backbone; and the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that  upon the inwards,
And the two kidneys, and the fat that  upon them, which  by the flanks, and the caul above the liver, with the kidneys, it shall he take away.
And the priest shall burn it upon the altar:  the food of the offering made by fire unto the .
And if his offering  a goat, then he shall offer it before the .
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of it, and kill it before the tabernacle of the congregation: and the sons of Aaron shall sprinkle the blood thereof upon the altar round about.
And he shall offer thereof his offering,  an offering made by fire unto the ; the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that  upon the inwards,
And the two kidneys, and the fat that  upon them, which  by the flanks, and the caul above the liver, with the kidneys, it shall he take away.
And the priest shall burn them upon the altar:  the food of the offering made by fire for a sweet savour: all the fat  the ’s.
 a perpetual statute for your generations throughout all your dwellings, that ye eat neither fat nor blood.
