
The burden of the word of the  to Israel by Malachi.
I have loved you, saith the . Yet ye say, Wherein hast thou loved us?  not Esau Jacob’s brother? saith the : yet I loved Jacob,

And I hated Esau, and laid his mountains and his heritage waste for the dragons of the wilderness.
Whereas Edom saith, We are impoverished, but we will return and build the desolate places; thus saith the  of hosts, They shall build, but I will throw down; and they shall call them, The border of wickedness, and, The people against whom the  hath indignation for ever.
And your eyes shall see, and ye shall say, The  will be magnified from the border of Israel.
A son honoureth  father, and a servant his master: if then I  a father, where  mine honour? and if I  a master, where  my fear? saith the  of hosts unto you, O priests, that despise my name. And ye say, Wherein have we despised thy name?
Ye offer polluted bread upon mine altar; and ye say, Wherein have we polluted thee? In that ye say, The table of the   contemptible.
And if ye offer the blind for sacrifice,  not evil? and if ye offer the lame and sick,  not evil? offer it now unto thy governor; will he be pleased with thee, or accept thy person? saith the  of hosts.
And now, I pray you, beseech God that he will be gracious unto us: this hath been by your means: will he regard your persons? saith the  of hosts.
Who  even among you that would shut the doors  neither do ye kindle  on mine altar for nought. I have no pleasure in you, saith the  of hosts, neither will I accept an offering at your hand.
For from the rising of the sun even unto the going down of the same my name  great among the Gentiles; and in every place incense  offered unto my name, and a pure offering: for my name  great among the heathen, saith the  of hosts.
But ye have profaned it, in that ye say, The table of the   polluted; and the fruit thereof,  his meat,  contemptible.
Ye said also, Behold, what a weariness  and ye have snuffed at it, saith the  of hosts; and ye brought  torn, and the lame, and the sick; thus ye brought an offering: should I accept this of your hand? saith the .
But cursed  the deceiver, which hath in his flock a male, and voweth, and sacrificeth unto the Lord a corrupt thing: for I  a great King, saith the  of hosts, and my name  dreadful among the heathen.
