
Woe is me! for I am as when they have gathered the summer fruits, as the grapegleanings of the vintage:  no cluster to eat: my soul desired the firstripe fruit.
The good  is perished out of the earth: and  none upright among men: they all lie in wait for blood; they hunt every man his brother with a net.
That they may do evil with both hands earnestly, the prince asketh, and the judge  for a reward; and the great  he uttereth his mischievous desire: so they wrap it up.
The best of them  as a brier: the most upright  than a thorn hedge: the day of thy watchmen  thy visitation cometh; now shall be their perplexity.
Trust ye not in a friend, put ye not confidence in a guide: keep the doors of thy mouth from her that lieth in thy bosom.
For the son dishonoureth the father, the daughter riseth up against her mother, the daughter in law against her mother in law; a man’s enemies  the men of his own house.
Therefore I will look unto the ; I will wait for the God of my salvation: my God will hear me.
Rejoice not against me, O mine enemy: when I fall, I shall arise; when I sit in darkness, the   a light unto me.
I will bear the indignation of the , because I have sinned against him, until he plead my cause, and execute judgment for me: he will bring me forth to the light,  I shall behold his righteousness.
Then  mine enemy shall see  and shame shall cover her which said unto me, Where is the  thy God? mine eyes shall behold her: now shall she be trodden down as the mire of the streets.
 the day that thy walls are to be built,  that day shall the decree be far removed.
 that day  he shall come even to thee from Assyria, and  the fortified cities, and from the fortress even to the river, and from sea to sea, and  mountain to mountain.
Notwithstanding the land shall be desolate because of them that dwell therein, for the fruit of their doings.
Feed thy people with thy rod, the flock of thine heritage, which dwell solitarily  the wood, in the midst of Carmel: let them feed  Bashan and Gilead, as in the days of old.
According to the days of thy coming out of the land of Egypt will I shew unto him marvellous 
The nations shall see and be confounded at all their might: they shall lay  hand upon  mouth, their ears shall be deaf.
They shall lick the dust like a serpent, they shall move out of their holes like worms of the earth: they shall be afraid of the  our God, and shall fear because of thee.
Who  a God like unto thee, that pardoneth iniquity, and passeth by the transgression of the remnant of his heritage? he retaineth not his anger for ever, because he delighteth  mercy.
He will turn again, he will have compassion upon us; he will subdue our iniquities; and thou wilt cast all their sins into the depths of the sea.
Thou wilt perform the truth to Jacob,  the mercy to Abraham, which thou hast sworn unto our fathers from the days of old.
