
And  the people complained, it displeased the : and the  heard  and his anger was kindled; and the fire of the  burnt among them, and consumed  in the uttermost parts of the camp.
And the people cried unto Moses; and when Moses prayed unto the , the fire was quenched.
And he called the name of the place Taberah: because the fire of the  burnt among them.
And the mixed multitude that  among them fell a lusting: and the children of Israel also wept again, and said, Who shall give us flesh to eat?
We remember the fish, which we did eat in Egypt freely; the cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlick:
But now our soul  dried away:  nothing at all, beside this manna,  our eyes.
And the manna  as coriander seed, and the colour thereof as the colour of bdellium.
 the people went about, and gathered  and ground  in mills, or beat  in a mortar, and baked  in pans, and made cakes of it: and the taste of it was as the taste of fresh oil.

And when the dew fell upon the camp in the night, the manna fell upon it.
Then Moses heard the people weep throughout their families, every man in the door of his tent: and the anger of the  was kindled greatly; Moses also was displeased.
And Moses said unto the , Wherefore hast thou afflicted thy servant? and wherefore have I not found favour in thy sight, that thou layest the burden of all this people upon me?
Have I conceived all this people? have I begotten them, that thou shouldest say unto me, Carry them in thy bosom, as a nursing father beareth the sucking child, unto the land which thou swarest unto their fathers?
Whence should I have flesh to give unto all this people? for they weep unto me, saying, Give us flesh, that we may eat.
I am not able to bear all this people alone, because  too heavy for me.
And if thou deal thus with me, kill me, I pray thee, out of hand, if I have found favour in thy sight; and let me not see my wretchedness.
And the  said unto Moses, Gather unto me seventy men of the elders of Israel, whom thou knowest to be the elders of the people, and officers over them; and bring them unto the tabernacle of the congregation, that they may stand there with thee.
And I will come down and talk with thee there: and I will take of the spirit which  upon thee, and will put  upon them; and they shall bear the burden of the people with thee, that thou bear  not thyself alone.
And say thou unto the people, Sanctify yourselves against to morrow, and ye shall eat flesh: for ye have wept in the ears of the , saying, Who shall give us flesh to eat? for  well with us in Egypt: therefore the  will give you flesh, and ye shall eat.
Ye shall not eat one day, nor two days, nor five days, neither ten days, nor twenty days;
 even a whole month, until it come out at your nostrils, and it be loathsome unto you: because that ye have despised the  which  among you, and have wept before him, saying, Why came we forth out of Egypt?
And Moses said, The people, among whom I  six hundred thousand footmen; and thou hast said, I will give them flesh, that they may eat a whole month.
Shall the flocks and the herds be slain for them, to suffice them? or shall all the fish of the sea be gathered together for them, to suffice them?
And the  said unto Moses, Is the ’s hand waxed short? thou shalt see now whether my word shall come to pass unto thee or not.
And Moses went out, and told the people the words of the , and gathered the seventy men of the elders of the people, and set them round about the tabernacle.
And the  came down in a cloud, and spake unto him, and took of the spirit that  upon him, and gave  unto the seventy elders: and it came to pass,  when the spirit rested upon them, they prophesied, and did not cease.
But there remained two  men in the camp, the name of the one  Eldad, and the name of the other Medad: and the spirit rested upon them; and they  of them that were written, but went not out unto the tabernacle: and they prophesied in the camp.
And there ran a young man, and told Moses, and said, Eldad and Medad do prophesy in the camp.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Moses,  of his young men, answered and said, My lord Moses, forbid them.
And Moses said unto him, Enviest thou for my sake? would God that all the ’s people were prophets,  that the  would put his spirit upon them!
And Moses gat him into the camp, he and the elders of Israel.
And there went forth a wind from the , and brought quails from the sea, and let  fall by the camp, as it were a day’s journey on this side, and as it were a day’s journey on the other side, round about the camp, and as it were two cubits  upon the face of the earth.
And the people stood up all that day, and all  night, and all the next day, and they gathered the quails: he that gathered least gathered ten homers: and they spread  all abroad for themselves round about the camp.
And while the flesh  yet between their teeth, ere it was chewed, the wrath of the  was kindled against the people, and the  smote the people with a very great plague.
And he called the name of that place Kibroth-hattaavah: because there they buried the people that lusted.
 the people journeyed from Kibroth-hattaavah unto Hazeroth; and abode at Hazeroth.
