
And the  spake unto Moses, saying,
Command the children of Israel, and say unto them, My offering,  my bread for my sacrifices made by fire,  a sweet savour unto me, shall ye observe to offer unto me in their due season.
And thou shalt say unto them, This  the offering made by fire which ye shall offer unto the ; two lambs of the first year without spot day by day,  a continual burnt offering.
The one lamb shalt thou offer in the morning, and the other lamb shalt thou offer at even;
And a tenth  of an ephah of flour for a meat offering, mingled with the fourth  of an hin of beaten oil.
 a continual burnt offering, which was ordained in mount Sinai for a sweet savour, a sacrifice made by fire unto the .
And the drink offering thereof  the fourth  of an hin for the one lamb: in the holy  shalt thou cause the strong wine to be poured unto the   a drink offering.
And the other lamb shalt thou offer at even: as the meat offering of the morning, and as the drink offering thereof, thou shalt offer  a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the .
And on the sabbath day two lambs of the first year without spot, and two tenth deals of flour  a meat offering, mingled with oil, and the drink offering thereof:
 the burnt offering of every sabbath, beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.
And in the beginnings of your months ye shall offer a burnt offering unto the ; two young bullocks, and one ram, seven lambs of the first year without spot;
And three tenth deals of flour  a meat offering, mingled with oil, for one bullock; and two tenth deals of flour  a meat offering, mingled with oil, for one ram;
And a several tenth deal of flour mingled with oil  a meat offering unto one lamb;  a burnt offering of a sweet savour, a sacrifice made by fire unto the .
And their drink offerings shall be half an hin of wine unto a bullock, and the third  of an hin unto a ram, and a fourth  of an hin unto a lamb: this  the burnt offering of every month throughout the months of the year.
And one kid of the goats for a sin offering unto the  shall be offered, beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.
And in the fourteenth day of the first month  the passover of the .
And in the fifteenth day of this month  the feast: seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten.
In the first day  an holy convocation; ye shall do no manner of servile work 
But ye shall offer a sacrifice made by fire  a burnt offering unto the ; two young bullocks, and one ram, and seven lambs of the first year: they shall be unto you without blemish:
And their meat offering  flour mingled with oil: three tenth deals shall ye offer for a bullock, and two tenth deals for a ram;
A several tenth deal shalt thou offer for every lamb, throughout the seven lambs:
And one goat  a sin offering, to make an atonement for you.
Ye shall offer these beside the burnt offering in the morning, which  for a continual burnt offering.
After this manner ye shall offer daily, throughout the seven days, the meat of the sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the : it shall be offered beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.
And on the seventh day ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work.
Also in the day of the firstfruits, when ye bring a new meat offering unto the , after your weeks  ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work:
But ye shall offer the burnt offering for a sweet savour unto the ; two young bullocks, one ram, seven lambs of the first year;
And their meat offering of flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals unto one bullock, two tenth deals unto one ram,
A several tenth deal unto one lamb, throughout the seven lambs;
 one kid of the goats, to make an atonement for you.
Ye shall offer  beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat offering, (they shall be unto you without blemish) and their drink offerings.
