
Better  the poor that walketh in his integrity, than  perverse in his lips, and is a fool.
Also,  the soul  without knowledge,  not good; and he that hasteth with  feet sinneth.

The foolishness of man perverteth his way: and his heart fretteth against the .
Wealth maketh many friends; but the poor is separated from his neighbour.
A false witness shall not be unpunished, and  speaketh lies shall not escape.
Many will entreat the favour of the prince: and every man  a friend to him that giveth gifts.
All the brethren of the poor do hate him: how much more do his friends go far from him? he pursueth  words,  they  wanting 
He that getteth wisdom loveth his own soul: he that keepeth understanding shall find good.
A false witness shall not be unpunished, and  speaketh lies shall perish.
Delight is not seemly for a fool; much less for a servant to have rule over princes.
The discretion of a man deferreth his anger; and  his glory to pass over a transgression.
The king’s wrath  as the roaring of a lion; but his favour  as dew upon the grass.
A foolish son  the calamity of his father: and the contentions of a wife  a continual dropping.
House and riches  the inheritance of fathers: and a prudent wife  from the .
Slothfulness casteth into a deep sleep; and an idle soul shall suffer hunger.
He that keepeth the commandment keepeth his own soul;  he that despiseth his ways shall die.
He that hath pity upon the poor lendeth unto the ; and that which he hath given will he pay him again.
Chasten thy son while there is hope, and let not thy soul spare for his crying.
A man of great wrath shall suffer punishment: for if thou deliver  yet thou must do it again.
Hear counsel, and receive instruction, that thou mayest be wise in thy latter end.
 many devices in a man’s heart; nevertheless the counsel of the , that shall stand.
The desire of a man  his kindness: and a poor man  better than a liar.
The fear of the   to life: and  shall abide satisfied; he shall not be visited with evil.
A slothful  hideth his hand in  bosom, and will not so much as bring it to his mouth again.
Smite a scorner, and the simple will beware: and reprove one that hath understanding,  he will understand knowledge.
He that wasteth  father,  chaseth away  mother,  a son that causeth shame, and bringeth reproach.
Cease, my son, to hear the instruction  to err from the words of knowledge.
An ungodly witness scorneth judgment: and the mouth of the wicked devoureth iniquity.
Judgments are prepared for scorners, and stripes for the back of fools.
