
The preparations of the heart in man, and the answer of the tongue,  from the .
All the ways of a man  clean in his own eyes; but the  weigheth the spirits.
Commit thy works unto the , and thy thoughts shall be established.
The  hath made all  for himself: yea, even the wicked for the day of evil.
Every one  proud in heart  an abomination to the :  hand  in hand, he shall not be unpunished.
By mercy and truth iniquity is purged: and by the fear of the   depart from evil.
When a man’s ways please the , he maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him.
Better  a little with righteousness than great revenues without right.
A man’s heart deviseth his way: but the  directeth his steps.
A divine sentence  in the lips of the king: his mouth transgresseth not in judgment.
A just weight and balance  the ’s: all the weights of the bag  his work.
 an abomination to kings to commit wickedness: for the throne is established by righteousness.
Righteous lips  the delight of kings; and they love him that speaketh right.
The wrath of a king  messengers of death: but a wise man will pacify it.
In the light of the king’s countenance  life; and his favour  as a cloud of the latter rain.
How much better  to get wisdom than gold! and to get understanding rather to be chosen than silver!
The highway of the upright  to depart from evil: he that keepeth his way preserveth his soul.
Pride  before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall.
Better  of an humble spirit with the lowly, than to divide the spoil with the proud.
He that handleth a matter wisely shall find good: and whoso trusteth in the , happy  he.
The wise in heart shall be called prudent: and the sweetness of the lips increaseth learning.
Understanding  a wellspring of life unto him that hath it: but the instruction of fools  folly.
The heart of the wise teacheth his mouth, and addeth learning to his lips.
Pleasant words  an honeycomb, sweet to the soul, and health to the bones.
There is a way that seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof  the ways of death.
He that laboureth laboureth for himself; for his mouth craveth it of him.
An ungodly man diggeth up evil: and in his lips  as a burning fire.
A froward man soweth strife: and a whisperer separateth chief friends.
A violent man enticeth his neighbour, and leadeth him into the way  not good.
He shutteth his eyes to devise froward things: moving his lips he bringeth evil to pass.
The hoary head  a crown of glory,  it be found in the way of righteousness.
 slow to anger  better than the mighty; and he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city.
The lot is cast into the lap; but the whole disposing thereof  of the .
