
Whoso loveth instruction loveth knowledge: but he that hateth reproof  brutish.
A good  obtaineth favour of the : but a man of wicked devices will he condemn.
A man shall not be established by wickedness: but the root of the righteous shall not be moved.
A virtuous woman  a crown to her husband: but she that maketh ashamed  as rottenness in his bones.
The thoughts of the righteous  right:  the counsels of the wicked  deceit.
The words of the wicked  to lie in wait for blood: but the mouth of the upright shall deliver them.
The wicked are overthrown, and  not: but the house of the righteous shall stand.
A man shall be commended according to his wisdom: but he that is of a perverse heart shall be despised.
 despised, and hath a servant,  better than he that honoureth himself, and lacketh bread.
A righteous  regardeth the life of his beast: but the tender mercies of the wicked  cruel.
He that tilleth his land shall be satisfied with bread: but he that followeth vain  void of understanding.
The wicked desireth the net of evil  but the root of the righteous yieldeth 
The wicked is snared by the transgression of  lips: but the just shall come out of trouble.
A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of  mouth: and the recompence of a man’s hands shall be rendered unto him.
The way of a fool  right in his own eyes: but he that hearkeneth unto counsel  wise.
A fool’s wrath is presently known: but a prudent  covereth shame.
 speaketh truth sheweth forth righteousness: but a false witness deceit.
There is that speaketh like the piercings of a sword: but the tongue of the wise  health.
The lip of truth shall be established for ever: but a lying tongue  but for a moment.
Deceit  in the heart of them that imagine evil: but to the counsellors of peace  joy.
There shall no evil happen to the just: but the wicked shall be filled with mischief.
Lying lips  abomination to the : but they that deal truly  his delight.
A prudent man concealeth knowledge: but the heart of fools proclaimeth foolishness.
The hand of the diligent shall bear rule: but the slothful shall be under tribute.
Heaviness in the heart of man maketh it stoop: but a good word maketh it glad.
The righteous  more excellent than his neighbour: but the way of the wicked seduceth them.
The slothful  roasteth not that which he took in hunting: but the substance of a diligent man  precious.
In the way of righteousness  life; and  the pathway  no death.
