
The words of Agur the son of Jakeh,  the prophecy: the man spake unto Ithiel, even unto Ithiel and Ucal,
Surely I  more brutish than  man, and have not the understanding of a man.
I neither learned wisdom, nor have the knowledge of the holy.
Who hath ascended up into heaven, or descended? who hath gathered the wind in his fists? who hath bound the waters in a garment? who hath established all the ends of the earth? what  his name, and what  his son’s name, if thou canst tell?
Every word of God  pure: he  a shield unto them that put their trust in him.
Add thou not unto his words, lest he reprove thee, and thou be found a liar.
Two  have I required of thee; deny me  not before I die:
Remove far from me vanity and lies: give me neither poverty nor riches; feed me with food convenient for me:
Lest I be full, and deny  and say, Who  the ? or lest I be poor, and steal, and take the name of my God 
Accuse not a servant unto his master, lest he curse thee, and thou be found guilty.
 a generation  curseth their father, and doth not bless their mother.
 a generation  pure in their own eyes, and  is not washed from their filthiness.
 a generation, O how lofty are their eyes! and their eyelids are lifted up.
 a generation, whose teeth  swords, and their jaw teeth  knives, to devour the poor from off the earth, and the needy from  men.
The horseleach hath two daughters,  Give, give. There are three  are never satisfied,  four  say not,  enough:
The grave; and the barren womb; the earth  is not filled with water; and the fire  saith not,  enough.
The eye  mocketh at  father, and despiseth to obey  mother, the ravens of the valley shall pick it out, and the young eagles shall eat it.
There be three  are too wonderful for me, yea, four which I know not:
The way of an eagle in the air; the way of a serpent upon a rock; the way of a ship in the midst of the sea; and the way of a man with a maid.
Such  the way of an adulterous woman; she eateth, and wipeth her mouth, and saith, I have done no wickedness.
For three  the earth is disquieted, and for four  it cannot bear:
For a servant when he reigneth; and a fool when he is filled with meat;
For an odious  when she is married; and an handmaid that is heir to her mistress.
There be four  little upon the earth, but they  exceeding wise:
The ants  a people not strong, yet they prepare their meat in the summer;
The conies  a feeble folk, yet make they their houses in the rocks;
The locusts have no king, yet go they forth all of them by bands;
The spider taketh hold with her hands, and is in kings’ palaces.
There be three  which go well, yea, four are comely in going:
A lion  strongest among beasts, and turneth not away for any;
A greyhound; an he goat also; and a king, against whom  no rising up.
If thou hast done foolishly in lifting up thyself, or if thou hast thought evil,  thine hand upon thy mouth.
Surely the churning of milk bringeth forth butter, and the wringing of the nose bringeth forth blood: so the forcing of wrath bringeth forth strife.
