
A  name  rather to be chosen than great riches,  loving favour rather than silver and gold.
The rich and poor meet together: the   the maker of them all.
A prudent  foreseeth the evil, and hideth himself: but the simple pass on, and are punished.
By humility  the fear of the   riches, and honour, and life.
Thorns  snares  in the way of the froward: he that doth keep his soul shall be far from them.
Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it.
The rich ruleth over the poor, and the borrower  servant to the lender.
He that soweth iniquity shall reap vanity: and the rod of his anger shall fail.
He that hath a bountiful eye shall be blessed; for he giveth of his bread to the poor.
Cast out the scorner, and contention shall go out; yea, strife and reproach shall cease.
He that loveth pureness of heart,  the grace of his lips the king  his friend.
The eyes of the  preserve knowledge, and he overthroweth the words of the transgressor.
The slothful  saith,  a lion without, I shall be slain in the streets.
The mouth of strange women  a deep pit: he that is abhorred of the  shall fall therein.
Foolishness  bound in the heart of a child;  the rod of correction shall drive it far from him.
He that oppresseth the poor to increase his  he that giveth to the rich,  surely  to want.
Bow down thine ear, and hear the words of the wise, and apply thine heart unto my knowledge.
For  a pleasant thing if thou keep them within thee; they shall withal be fitted in thy lips.
That thy trust may be in the , I have made known to thee this day, even to thee.
Have not I written to thee excellent things in counsels and knowledge,
That I might make thee know the certainty of the words of truth; that thou mightest answer the words of truth to them that send unto thee?
Rob not the poor, because he  poor: neither oppress the afflicted in the gate:
For the  will plead their cause, and spoil the soul of those that spoiled them.
Make no friendship with an angry man; and with a furious man thou shalt not go:
Lest thou learn his ways, and get a snare to thy soul.
Be not thou  of them that strike hands,  of them that are sureties for debts.
If thou hast nothing to pay, why should he take away thy bed from under thee?
Remove not the ancient landmark, which thy fathers have set.
Seest thou a man diligent in his business? he shall stand before kings; he shall not stand before mean 
