
As snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, so honour is not seemly for a fool.
As the bird by wandering, as the swallow by flying, so the curse causeless shall not come.
A whip for the horse, a bridle for the ass, and a rod for the fool’s back.
Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest thou also be like unto him.
Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit.
He that sendeth a message by the hand of a fool cutteth off the feet,  drinketh damage.
The legs of the lame are not equal: so  a parable in the mouth of fools.
As he that bindeth a stone in a sling, so  he that giveth honour to a fool.
 a thorn goeth up into the hand of a drunkard, so  a parable in the mouth of fools.
The great  that formed all  both rewardeth the fool, and rewardeth transgressors.
As a dog returneth to his vomit,  a fool returneth to his folly.
Seest thou a man wise in his own conceit?  more hope of a fool than of him.
The slothful  saith,  a lion in the way; a lion  in the streets.
 the door turneth upon his hinges, so  the slothful upon his bed.
The slothful hideth his hand in  bosom; it grieveth him to bring it again to his mouth.
The sluggard  wiser in his own conceit than seven men that can render a reason.
He that passeth by,  meddleth with strife  not to him,  one that taketh a dog by the ears.
As a mad  who casteth firebrands, arrows, and death,
So  the man  deceiveth his neighbour, and saith, Am not I in sport?
Where no wood is,  the fire goeth out: so where  no talebearer, the strife ceaseth.
 coals  to burning coals, and wood to fire; so  a contentious man to kindle strife.
The words of a talebearer  as wounds, and they go down into the innermost parts of the belly.
Burning lips and a wicked heart  a potsherd covered with silver dross.
He that hateth dissembleth with his lips, and layeth up deceit within him;
When he speaketh fair, believe him not: for  seven abominations in his heart.
 hatred is covered by deceit, his wickedness shall be shewed before the  congregation.
Whoso diggeth a pit shall fall therein: and he that rolleth a stone, it will return upon him.

A lying tongue hateth  afflicted by it; and a flattering mouth worketh ruin.
