
The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son maketh a glad father: but a foolish son  the heaviness of his mother.
Treasures of wickedness profit nothing: but righteousness delivereth from death.
The  will not suffer the soul of the righteous to famish: but he casteth away the substance of the wicked.
He becometh poor that dealeth  a slack hand: but the hand of the diligent maketh rich.
He that gathereth in summer  a wise son:  he that sleepeth in harvest  a son that causeth shame.
Blessings  upon the head of the just: but violence covereth the mouth of the wicked.
The memory of the just  blessed: but the name of the wicked shall rot.
The wise in heart will receive commandments: but a prating fool shall fall.
He that walketh uprightly walketh surely: but he that perverteth his ways shall be known.
He that winketh with the eye causeth sorrow: but a prating fool shall fall.
The mouth of a righteous  a well of life: but violence covereth the mouth of the wicked.

Hatred stirreth up strifes: but love covereth all sins.
In the lips of him that hath understanding wisdom is found: but a rod  for the back of him that is void of understanding.
Wise  lay up knowledge: but the mouth of the foolish  near destruction.
The rich man’s wealth  his strong city: the destruction of the poor  their poverty.
The labour of the righteous  to life: the fruit of the wicked to sin.
He  the way of life that keepeth instruction: but he that refuseth reproof erreth.
He that hideth hatred  lying lips, and he that uttereth a slander,  a fool.
In the multitude of words there wanteth not sin: but he that refraineth his lips  wise.
The tongue of the just  choice silver: the heart of the wicked  little worth.
The lips of the righteous feed many: but fools die for want of wisdom.
The blessing of the , it maketh rich, and he addeth no sorrow with it.
 as sport to a fool to do mischief: but a man of understanding hath wisdom.
The fear of the wicked, it shall come upon him: but the desire of the righteous shall be granted.
As the whirlwind passeth, so  the wicked no  but the righteous  an everlasting foundation.
As vinegar to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes, so  the sluggard to them that send him.
The fear of the  prolongeth days: but the years of the wicked shall be shortened.
The hope of the righteous  gladness: but the expectation of the wicked shall perish.
The way of the   strength to the upright: but destruction  to the workers of iniquity.
The righteous shall never be removed: but the wicked shall not inhabit the earth.
The mouth of the just bringeth forth wisdom: but the froward tongue shall be cut out.
The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable: but the mouth of the wicked  frowardness.
