
Be not thou envious against evil men, neither desire to be with them.
For their heart studieth destruction, and their lips talk of mischief.
Through wisdom is an house builded; and by understanding it is established:
And by knowledge shall the chambers be filled with all precious and pleasant riches.
A wise man  strong; yea, a man of knowledge increaseth strength.
For by wise counsel thou shalt make thy war: and in multitude of counsellors  safety.

Wisdom  too high for a fool: he openeth not his mouth in the gate.
He that deviseth to do evil shall be called a mischievous person.
The thought of foolishness  sin: and the scorner  an abomination to men.
 thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength  small.
If thou forbear to deliver  drawn unto death, and  ready to be slain;
If thou sayest, Behold, we knew it not; doth not he that pondereth the heart consider  and he that keepeth thy soul, doth  he know  and shall  he render to  man according to his works?
My son, eat thou honey, because  good; and the honeycomb,  sweet to thy taste:
So  the knowledge of wisdom  unto thy soul: when thou hast found  then there shall be a reward, and thy expectation shall not be cut off.
Lay not wait, O wicked  against the dwelling of the righteous; spoil not his resting place:
For a just  falleth seven times, and riseth up again: but the wicked shall fall into mischief.
Rejoice not when thine enemy falleth, and let not thine heart be glad when he stumbleth:
Lest the  see  and it displease him, and he turn away his wrath from him.
Fret not thyself because of evil  neither be thou envious at the wicked;
For there shall be no reward to the evil  the candle of the wicked shall be put out.
My son, fear thou the  and the king:  meddle not with them that are given to change:
For their calamity shall rise suddenly; and who knoweth the ruin of them both?
These  also  to the wise.  not good to have respect of persons in judgment.
He that saith unto the wicked, Thou  righteous; him shall the people curse, nations shall abhor him:
But to them that rebuke  shall be delight, and a good blessing shall come upon them.
 shall kiss  lips that giveth a right answer.
Prepare thy work without, and make it fit for thyself in the field; and afterwards build thine house.
Be not a witness against thy neighbour without cause; and deceive  with thy lips.
Say not, I will do so to him as he hath done to me: I will render to the man according to his work.
I went by the field of the slothful, and by the vineyard of the man void of understanding;
And, lo, it was all grown over with thorns,  nettles had covered the face thereof, and the stone wall thereof was broken down.
Then I saw,  considered  well: I looked upon  received instruction.
 a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep:
So shall thy poverty come  one that travelleth; and thy want as an armed man.
