
These  also proverbs of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah king of Judah copied out.
 the glory of God to conceal a thing: but the honour of kings  to search out a matter.
The heaven for height, and the earth for depth, and the heart of kings  unsearchable.
Take away the dross from the silver, and there shall come forth a vessel for the finer.
Take away the wicked  before the king, and his throne shall be established in righteousness.
Put not forth thyself in the presence of the king, and stand not in the place of great 
For better  that it be said unto thee, Come up hither; than that thou shouldest be put lower in the presence of the prince whom thine eyes have seen.
Go not forth hastily to strive, lest  what to do in the end thereof, when thy neighbour hath put thee to shame.
Debate thy cause with thy neighbour  and discover not a secret to another:
Lest he that heareth  put thee to shame, and thine infamy turn not away.
A word fitly spoken  apples of gold in pictures of silver.
 an earring of gold, and an ornament of fine gold,  a wise reprover upon an obedient ear.
As the cold of snow in the time of harvest,  a faithful messenger to them that send him: for he refresheth the soul of his masters.
Whoso boasteth himself of a false gift  clouds and wind without rain.
By long forbearing is a prince persuaded, and a soft tongue breaketh the bone.
Hast thou found honey? eat so much as is sufficient for thee, lest thou be filled therewith, and vomit it.
Withdraw thy foot from thy neighbour’s house; lest he be weary of thee, and  hate thee.
A man that beareth false witness against his neighbour  a maul, and a sword, and a sharp arrow.
Confidence in an unfaithful man in time of trouble  a broken tooth, and a foot out of joint.
 he that taketh away a garment in cold weather,  vinegar upon nitre, so  he that singeth songs to an heavy heart.
If thine enemy be hungry, give him bread to eat; and if he be thirsty, give him water to drink:
For thou shalt heap coals of fire upon his head, and the  shall reward thee.
The north wind driveth away rain: so  an angry countenance a backbiting tongue.
 better to dwell in the corner of the housetop, than with a brawling woman and in a wide house.
 cold waters to a thirsty soul, so  good news from a far country.
A righteous man falling down before the wicked  a troubled fountain, and a corrupt spring.
 not good to eat much honey: so  to search their own glory  glory.

He that  no rule over his own spirit  a city  broken down,  without walls.
