
A soft answer turneth away wrath: but grievous words stir up anger.
The tongue of the wise useth knowledge aright: but the mouth of fools poureth out foolishness.
The eyes of the   in every place, beholding the evil and the good.
A wholesome tongue  a tree of life: but perverseness therein  a breach in the spirit.
A fool despiseth his father’s instruction: but he that regardeth reproof is prudent.
In the house of the righteous  much treasure: but in the revenues of the wicked is trouble.
The lips of the wise disperse knowledge: but the heart of the foolish  not so.
The sacrifice of the wicked  an abomination to the : but the prayer of the upright  his delight.
The way of the wicked  an abomination unto the : but he loveth him that followeth after righteousness.
Correction  grievous unto him that forsaketh the way:  he that hateth reproof shall die.
Hell and destruction  before the : how much more then the hearts of the children of men?
A scorner loveth not one that reproveth him: neither will he go unto the wise.
A merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance: but by sorrow of the heart the spirit is broken.
The heart of him that hath understanding seeketh knowledge: but the mouth of fools feedeth on foolishness.
All the days of the afflicted  evil: but he that is of a merry heart  a continual feast.
Better  little with the fear of the  than great treasure and trouble therewith.
Better  a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith.
A wrathful man stirreth up strife: but  slow to anger appeaseth strife.
The way of the slothful  as an hedge of thorns: but the way of the righteous  made plain.
A wise son maketh a glad father: but a foolish man despiseth his mother.
Folly  joy to  destitute of wisdom: but a man of understanding walketh uprightly.
Without counsel purposes are disappointed: but in the multitude of counsellors they are established.
A man hath joy by the answer of his mouth: and a word  in due season, how good 
The way of life  above to the wise, that he may depart from hell beneath.
The  will destroy the house of the proud: but he will establish the border of the widow.
The thoughts of the wicked  an abomination to the : but  of the pure  pleasant words.
He that is greedy of gain troubleth his own house; but he that hateth gifts shall live.
The heart of the righteous studieth to answer: but the mouth of the wicked poureth out evil things.
The   far from the wicked: but he heareth the prayer of the righteous.
The light of the eyes rejoiceth the heart:  a good report maketh the bones fat.
The ear that heareth the reproof of life abideth among the wise.
He that refuseth instruction despiseth his own soul: but he that heareth reproof getteth understanding.
The fear of the   the instruction of wisdom; and before honour  humility.
