
He, that being often reproved hardeneth  neck, shall suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy.
When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice: but when the wicked beareth rule, the people mourn.
Whoso loveth wisdom rejoiceth his father: but he that keepeth company with harlots spendeth  substance.
The king by judgment establisheth the land: but he that receiveth gifts overthroweth it.
A man that flattereth his neighbour spreadeth a net for his feet.
In the transgression of an evil man  a snare: but the righteous doth sing and rejoice.
The righteous considereth the cause of the poor:  the wicked regardeth not to know 
Scornful men bring a city into a snare: but wise  turn away wrath.
 a wise man contendeth with a foolish man, whether he rage or laugh,  no rest.
The bloodthirsty hate the upright: but the just seek his soul.
A fool uttereth all his mind: but a wise  keepeth it in till afterwards.
If a ruler hearken to lies, all his servants  wicked.
The poor and the deceitful man meet together: the  lighteneth both their eyes.
The king that faithfully judgeth the poor, his throne shall be established for ever.
The rod and reproof give wisdom: but a child left  bringeth his mother to shame.
When the wicked are multiplied, transgression increaseth: but the righteous shall see their fall.
Correct thy son, and he shall give thee rest; yea, he shall give delight unto thy soul.
Where  no vision, the people perish: but he that keepeth the law, happy  he.
A servant will not be corrected by words: for though he understand he will not answer.
Seest thou a man  hasty in his words?  more hope of a fool than of him.
He that delicately bringeth up his servant from a child shall have him become  son at the length.
An angry man stirreth up strife, and a furious man aboundeth in transgression.
A man’s pride shall bring him low: but honour shall uphold the humble in spirit.
Whoso is partner with a thief hateth his own soul: he heareth cursing, and bewrayeth  not.
The fear of man bringeth a snare: but whoso putteth his trust in the  shall be safe.
Many seek the ruler’s favour; but  man’s judgment  from the .
An unjust man  an abomination to the just: and  upright in the way  abomination to the wicked.
