
A wise son  his father’s instruction: but a scorner heareth not rebuke.
A man shall eat good by the fruit of  mouth: but the soul of the transgressors  violence.
He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life:  he that openeth wide his lips shall have destruction.
The soul of the sluggard desireth, and  nothing: but the soul of the diligent shall be made fat.
A righteous  hateth lying: but a wicked  is loathsome, and cometh to shame.
Righteousness keepeth  upright in the way: but wickedness overthroweth the sinner.
There is that maketh himself rich, yet  nothing:  that maketh himself poor, yet  great riches.
The ransom of a man’s life  his riches: but the poor heareth not rebuke.
The light of the righteous rejoiceth: but the lamp of the wicked shall be put out.
Only by pride cometh contention: but with the well advised  wisdom.
Wealth  by vanity shall be diminished: but he that gathereth by labour shall increase.
Hope deferred maketh the heart sick: but  the desire cometh,  a tree of life.
Whoso despiseth the word shall be destroyed: but he that feareth the commandment shall be rewarded.
The law of the wise  a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death.
Good understanding giveth favour: but the way of transgressors  hard.
Every prudent  dealeth with knowledge: but a fool layeth open  folly.
A wicked messenger falleth into mischief: but a faithful ambassador  health.
Poverty and shame  him that refuseth instruction: but he that regardeth reproof shall be honoured.
The desire accomplished is sweet to the soul: but  abomination to fools to depart from evil.
He that walketh with wise  shall be wise: but a companion of fools shall be destroyed.
Evil pursueth sinners: but to the righteous good shall be repayed.
A good  leaveth an inheritance to his children’s children: and the wealth of the sinner  laid up for the just.
Much food  the tillage of the poor: but there is  destroyed for want of judgment.
He that spareth his rod hateth his son: but he that loveth him chasteneth him betimes.
The righteous eateth to the satisfying of his soul: but the belly of the wicked shall want.
