

Every wise woman buildeth her house: but the foolish plucketh it down with her hands.
He that walketh in his uprightness feareth the : but  perverse in his ways despiseth him.
In the mouth of the foolish  a rod of pride: but the lips of the wise shall preserve them.
Where no oxen  the crib  clean: but much increase  by the strength of the ox.
A faithful witness will not lie: but a false witness will utter lies.
A scorner seeketh wisdom, and  not: but knowledge  easy unto him that understandeth.
Go from the presence of a foolish man, when thou perceivest not  the lips of knowledge.
The wisdom of the prudent  to understand his way: but the folly of fools  deceit.
Fools make a mock at sin: but among the righteous  favour.
The heart knoweth his own bitterness; and a stranger doth not intermeddle with his joy.
The house of the wicked shall be overthrown: but the tabernacle of the upright shall flourish.
There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof  the ways of death.
Even in laughter the heart is sorrowful; and the end of that mirth  heaviness.
The backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways: and a good man  from himself.
The simple believeth every word: but the prudent  looketh well to his going.
A wise  feareth, and departeth from evil: but the fool rageth, and is confident.
 soon angry dealeth foolishly: and a man of wicked devices is hated.
The simple inherit folly: but the prudent are crowned with knowledge.
The evil bow before the good; and the wicked at the gates of the righteous.
The poor is hated even of his own neighbour: but the rich  many friends.
He that despiseth his neighbour sinneth: but he that hath mercy on the poor, happy  he.
Do they not err that devise evil? but mercy and truth  to them that devise good.
In all labour there is profit: but the talk of the lips  only to penury.
The crown of the wise  their riches:  the foolishness of fools  folly.
A true witness delivereth souls: but a deceitful  speaketh lies.
In the fear of the   strong confidence: and his children shall have a place of refuge.
The fear of the   a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death.
In the multitude of people  the king’s honour: but in the want of people  the destruction of the prince.
 slow to wrath  of great understanding: but  hasty of spirit exalteth folly.
A sound heart  the life of the flesh: but envy the rottenness of the bones.
He that oppresseth the poor reproacheth his Maker: but he that honoureth him hath mercy on the poor.
The wicked is driven away in his wickedness: but the righteous hath hope in his death.
Wisdom resteth in the heart of him that hath understanding: but  in the midst of fools is made known.
Righteousness exalteth a nation: but sin  a reproach to any people.
The king’s favour  toward a wise servant: but his wrath is  him that causeth shame.
