
The wicked flee when no man pursueth: but the righteous are bold as a lion.
For the transgression of a land many  the princes thereof: but by a man of understanding  knowledge the state  shall be prolonged.
A poor man that oppresseth the poor  a sweeping rain which leaveth no food.
They that forsake the law praise the wicked: but such as keep the law contend with them.
Evil men understand not judgment: but they that seek the  understand all 
Better  the poor that walketh in his uprightness, than  perverse  ways, though he  rich.
Whoso keepeth the law  a wise son: but he that is a companion of riotous  shameth his father.
He that by usury and unjust gain increaseth his substance, he shall gather it for him that will pity the poor.
He that turneth away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer  abomination.
Whoso causeth the righteous to go astray in an evil way, he shall fall himself into his own pit: but the upright shall have good  in possession.
The rich man  wise in his own conceit; but the poor that hath understanding searcheth him out.
When righteous  do rejoice,  great glory: but when the wicked rise, a man is hidden.
He that covereth his sins shall not prosper: but whoso confesseth and forsaketh  shall have mercy.
Happy  the man that feareth alway: but he that hardeneth his heart shall fall into mischief.
 a roaring lion, and a ranging bear;  a wicked ruler over the poor people.
The prince that wanteth understanding  also a great oppressor:  he that hateth covetousness shall prolong  days.
A man that doeth violence to the blood of  person shall flee to the pit; let no man stay him.
Whoso walketh uprightly shall be saved: but  perverse  ways shall fall at once.
He that tilleth his land shall have plenty of bread: but he that followeth after vain  shall have poverty enough.
A faithful man shall abound with blessings: but he that maketh haste to be rich shall not be innocent.

To have respect of persons  not good: for for a piece of bread  man will transgress.
He that hasteth to be rich  an evil eye, and considereth not that poverty shall come upon him.
He that rebuketh a man afterwards shall find more favour than he that flattereth with the tongue.
Whoso robbeth his father or his mother, and saith,  no transgression; the same  the companion of a destroyer.
He that is of a proud heart stirreth up strife: but he that putteth his trust in the  shall be made fat.
He that trusteth in his own heart is a fool: but whoso walketh wisely, he shall be delivered.
He that giveth unto the poor shall not lack: but he that hideth his eyes shall have many a curse.
When the wicked rise, men hide themselves: but when they perish, the righteous increase.
