
A false balance  abomination to the : but a just weight  his delight.
 pride cometh, then cometh shame: but with the lowly  wisdom.
The integrity of the upright shall guide them: but the perverseness of transgressors shall destroy them.
Riches profit not in the day of wrath: but righteousness delivereth from death.
The righteousness of the perfect shall direct his way: but the wicked shall fall by his own wickedness.
The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them: but transgressors shall be taken in  naughtiness.
When a wicked man dieth,  expectation shall perish: and the hope of unjust  perisheth.
The righteous is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked cometh in his stead.
An hypocrite with  mouth destroyeth his neighbour: but through knowledge shall the just be delivered.
When it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth: and when the wicked perish,  shouting.
By the blessing of the upright the city is exalted: but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.
He that is void of wisdom despiseth his neighbour: but a man of understanding holdeth his peace.
A talebearer revealeth secrets: but he that is of a faithful spirit concealeth the matter.
Where no counsel  the people fall: but in the multitude of counsellors  safety.
He that is surety for a stranger shall smart  and he that hateth suretiship is sure.
A gracious woman retaineth honour: and strong  retain riches.
The merciful man doeth good to his own soul: but  cruel troubleth his own flesh.
The wicked worketh a deceitful work: but to him that soweth righteousness  a sure reward.
As righteousness  to life: so he that pursueth evil  to his own death.
They that are of a froward heart  abomination to the : but  upright in  way  his delight.
 hand  in hand, the wicked shall not be unpunished: but the seed of the righteous shall be delivered.
 a jewel of gold in a swine’s snout,  a fair woman which is without discretion.
The desire of the righteous  only good:  the expectation of the wicked  wrath.
There is that scattereth, and yet increaseth; and  that withholdeth more than is meet, but  to poverty.
The liberal soul shall be made fat: and he that watereth shall be watered also himself.
He that withholdeth corn, the people shall curse him: but blessing  upon the head of him that selleth 
He that diligently seeketh good procureth favour: but he that seeketh mischief, it shall come unto him.
He that trusteth in his riches shall fall: but the righteous shall flourish as a branch.
He that troubleth his own house shall inherit the wind: and the fool  servant to the wise of heart.
The fruit of the righteous  a tree of life; and he that winneth souls  wise.
Behold, the righteous shall be recompensed in the earth: much more the wicked and the sinner.
