
Wine  a mocker, strong drink  raging: and whosoever is deceived thereby is not wise.
The fear of a king  as the roaring of a lion:  provoketh him to anger sinneth  his own soul.
 an honour for a man to cease from strife: but every fool will be meddling.
The sluggard will not plow by reason of the cold;  shall he beg in harvest, and  nothing.
Counsel in the heart of man  deep water; but a man of understanding will draw it out.
Most men will proclaim every one his own goodness: but a faithful man who can find?
The just  walketh in his integrity: his children  blessed after him.
A king that sitteth in the throne of judgment scattereth away all evil with his eyes.
Who can say, I have made my heart clean, I am pure from my sin?
Divers weights,  divers measures, both of them  alike abomination to the .
Even a child is known by his doings, whether his work  pure, and whether  right.
The hearing ear, and the seeing eye, the  hath made even both of them.
Love not sleep, lest thou come to poverty; open thine eyes,  thou shalt be satisfied with bread.
 naught,  naught, saith the buyer: but when he is gone his way, then he boasteth.
There is gold, and a multitude of rubies: but the lips of knowledge  a precious jewel.
Take his garment that is surety  a stranger: and take a pledge of him for a strange woman.
Bread of deceit  sweet to a man; but afterwards his mouth shall be filled with gravel.
 purpose is established by counsel: and with good advice make war.
He that goeth about  a talebearer revealeth secrets: therefore meddle not with him that flattereth with his lips.
Whoso curseth his father or his mother, his lamp shall be put out in obscure darkness.
An inheritance  gotten hastily at the beginning; but the end thereof shall not be blessed.
Say not thou, I will recompense evil;  wait on the , and he shall save thee.
Divers weights  an abomination unto the ; and a false balance  not good.

Man’s goings  of the ; how can a man then understand his own way?
 a snare to the man  devoureth  holy, and after vows to make inquiry.
A wise king scattereth the wicked, and bringeth the wheel over them.
The spirit of man  the candle of the , searching all the inward parts of the belly.
Mercy and truth preserve the king: and his throne is upholden by mercy.
The glory of young men  their strength: and the beauty of old men  the gray head.
The blueness of a wound cleanseth away evil: so  stripes the inward parts of the belly.
