
Bless the , O my soul. O  my God, thou art very great; thou art clothed with honour and majesty.
Who coverest  with light as  a garment: who stretchest out the heavens like a curtain:
Who layeth the beams of his chambers in the waters: who maketh the clouds his chariot: who walketh upon the wings of the wind:
Who maketh his angels spirits; his ministers a flaming fire:
 laid the foundations of the earth,  it should not be removed for ever.
Thou coveredst it with the deep as  a garment: the waters stood above the mountains.
At thy rebuke they fled; at the voice of thy thunder they hasted away.
They go up by the mountains; they go down by the valleys unto the place which thou hast founded for them.
Thou hast set a bound that they may not pass over; that they turn not again to cover the earth.
He sendeth the springs into the valleys,  run among the hills.
They give drink to every beast of the field: the wild asses quench their thirst.
By them shall the fowls of the heaven have their habitation,  sing among the branches.
He watereth the hills from his chambers: the earth is satisfied with the fruit of thy works.
He causeth the grass to grow for the cattle, and herb for the service of man: that he may bring forth food out of the earth;
And wine  maketh glad the heart of man,  oil to make  face to shine, and bread  strengtheneth man’s heart.
The trees of the  are full  the cedars of Lebanon, which he hath planted;
Where the birds make their nests:  the stork, the fir trees  her house.
The high hills  a refuge for the wild goats;  the rocks for the conies.
He appointed the moon for seasons: the sun knoweth his going down.
Thou makest darkness, and it is night: wherein all the beasts of the forest do creep 

The young lions roar after their prey, and seek their meat from God.
The sun ariseth, they gather themselves together, and lay them down in their dens.
Man goeth forth unto his work and to his labour until the evening.
O , how manifold are thy works! in wisdom hast thou made them all: the earth is full of thy riches.
 this great and wide sea, wherein  things creeping innumerable, both small and great beasts.
There go the ships:  that leviathan,  thou hast made to play therein.
These wait all upon thee; that thou mayest give  their meat in due season.
 thou givest them they gather: thou openest thine hand, they are filled with good.
Thou hidest thy face, they are troubled: thou takest away their breath, they die, and return to their dust.
Thou sendest forth thy spirit, they are created: and thou renewest the face of the earth.
The glory of the  shall endure for ever: the  shall rejoice in his works.
He looketh on the earth, and it trembleth: he toucheth the hills, and they smoke.
I will sing unto the  as long as I live: I will sing praise to my God while I have my being.
My meditation of him shall be sweet: I will be glad in the .
Let the sinners be consumed out of the earth, and let the wicked be no more. Bless thou the , O my soul. Praise ye the .
