


 
Blessed are they who keep the commandments.

Blessed  the undefiled in the way, who walk in the law of the .
Blessed  they that keep his testimonies,  seek him with the whole heart.
They also do no iniquity: they walk in his ways.
Thou hast commanded  to keep thy precepts diligently.
O that my ways were directed to keep thy statutes!
Then shall I not be ashamed, when I have respect unto all thy commandments.
I will praise thee with uprightness of heart, when I shall have learned thy righteous judgments.
I will keep thy statutes: O forsake me not utterly.



 
Ponder the precepts and ways of the Lord.

Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? by taking heed  according to thy word.
With my whole heart have I sought thee: O let me not wander from thy commandments.

Thy word have I hid in mine heart, that I might not sin against thee.
Blessed  thou, O : teach me thy statutes.
With my lips have I declared all the judgments of thy mouth.
I have rejoiced in the way of thy testimonies, as  in all riches.
I will meditate in thy precepts, and have respect unto thy ways.
I will delight myself in thy statutes: I will not forget thy word.



 
O Lord, open our eyes, that we may behold wondrous things out of Thy law.

Deal bountifully with thy servant,  I may live, and keep thy word.
Open thou mine eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law.
I  a stranger in the earth: hide not thy commandments from me.
My soul breaketh for the longing  unto thy judgments at all times.
Thou hast rebuked the proud  cursed, which do err from thy commandments.
Remove from me reproach and contempt; for I have kept thy testimonies.
Princes also did sit  speak against me:  thy servant did meditate in thy statutes.
Thy testimonies also  my delight  my counsellors.



 
O Lord, grant us Thy law, and make us to understand Thy precepts.

My soul cleaveth unto the dust: quicken thou me according to thy word.
I have declared my ways, and thou heardest me: teach me thy statutes.
Make me to understand the way of thy precepts: so shall I talk of thy wondrous works.
My soul melteth for heaviness: strengthen thou me according unto thy word.
Remove from me the way of lying: and grant me thy law graciously.
I have chosen the way of truth: thy judgments have I laid 
I have stuck unto thy testimonies: O , put me not to shame.
I will run the way of thy commandments, when thou shalt enlarge my heart.



 
O Lord, teach us Thy statutes, Thy law, and Thy commandments.

Teach me, O , the way of thy statutes; and I shall keep it  the end.
Give me understanding, and I shall keep thy law; yea, I shall observe it with  whole heart.
Make me to go in the path of thy commandments; for therein do I delight.
Incline my heart unto thy testimonies, and not to covetousness.
Turn away mine eyes from beholding vanity;  quicken thou me in thy way.
Stablish thy word unto thy servant, who  to thy fear.
Turn away my reproach which I fear: for thy judgments  good.
Behold, I have longed after thy precepts: quicken me in thy righteousness.




 
O Lord, give us mercy, truth, and salvation.

Let thy mercies come also unto me, O ,  thy salvation, according to thy word.
So shall I have wherewith to answer him that reproacheth me: for I trust in thy word.
And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth; for I have hoped in thy judgments.
So shall I keep thy law continually for ever and ever.
And I will walk at liberty: for I seek thy precepts.
I will speak of thy testimonies also before kings, and will not be ashamed.
And I will delight myself in thy commandments, which I have loved.
My hands also will I lift up unto thy commandments, which I have loved; and I will meditate in thy statutes.



 
The Lord’s statutes and judgments comfort us during our pilgrimage.

Remember the word unto thy servant, upon which thou hast caused me to hope.
This  my comfort in my affliction: for thy word hath quickened me.
The proud have had me greatly in derision:  have I not declined from thy law.
I remembered thy judgments of old, O ; and have comforted myself.
Horror hath taken hold upon me because of the wicked that forsake thy law.
Thy statutes have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimage.
I have remembered thy name, O , in the night, and have kept thy law.
This I had, because I kept thy precepts.



 
Make faithful people our companions.

 my portion, O : I have said that I would keep thy words.
I entreated thy favour with  whole heart: be merciful unto me according to thy word.
I thought on my ways, and turned my feet unto thy testimonies.
I made haste, and delayed not to keep thy commandments.
The bands of the wicked have robbed me:  I have not forgotten thy law.
At midnight I will rise to give thanks unto thee because of thy righteous judgments.
I  a companion of all  that fear thee, and of them that keep thy precepts.
The earth, O , is full of thy mercy: teach me thy statutes.



 
O Lord, teach us Thy statutes.

Thou hast dealt well with thy servant, O , according unto thy word.
Teach me good judgment and knowledge: for I have believed thy commandments.
Before I was afflicted I went astray: but now have I kept thy word.
Thou  good, and doest good; teach me thy statutes.
The proud have forged a lie against me:  I will keep thy precepts with  whole heart.

Their heart is as fat as grease;  I delight in thy law.
 good for me that I have been afflicted; that I might learn thy statutes.
The law of thy mouth  better unto me than thousands of gold and silver.



 
O Lord, let Thy tender mercies come upon us.

Thy hands have made me and fashioned me: give me understanding, that I may learn thy commandments.
They that fear thee will be glad when they see me; because I have hoped in thy word.
I know, O , that thy judgments  right, and  thou in faithfulness hast afflicted me.
Let, I pray thee, thy merciful kindness be for my comfort, according to thy word unto thy servant.
Let thy tender mercies come unto me, that I may live: for thy law  my delight.
Let the proud be ashamed; for they dealt perversely with me without a cause:  I will meditate in thy precepts.
Let those that fear thee turn unto me, and those that have known thy testimonies.
Let my heart be sound in thy statutes; that I be not ashamed.



 
All the Lord’s commandments are faithful.

My soul fainteth for thy salvation:  I hope in thy word.
Mine eyes fail for thy word, saying, When wilt thou comfort me?
For I am become like a bottle in the smoke;  do I not forget thy statutes.
How many  the days of thy servant? when wilt thou execute judgment on them that persecute me?
The proud have digged pits for me, which  not after thy law.
All thy commandments  faithful: they persecute me wrongfully; help thou me.
They had almost consumed me upon earth; but I forsook not thy precepts.
Quicken me after thy lovingkindness; so shall I keep the testimony of thy mouth.



 
O Lord, save us, for we have sought Thy precepts.

For ever, O , thy word is settled in heaven.
Thy faithfulness  unto all generations: thou hast established the earth, and it abideth.
They continue this day according to thine ordinances: for all  thy servants.
Unless thy law  my delights, I should then have perished in mine affliction.
I will never forget thy precepts: for with them thou hast quickened me.
I  thine, save me; for I have sought thy precepts.
The wicked have waited for me to destroy me:  I will consider thy testimonies.
I have seen an end of all perfection:  thy commandment  exceeding broad.



 
The Lord’s law and His testimonies should be our meditation all the day.

O how love I thy law! it  my meditation all the day.
Thou through thy commandments hast made me wiser than mine enemies: for they  ever with me.
I have more understanding than all my teachers: for thy testimonies  my meditation.
I understand more than the ancients, because I keep thy precepts.
I have refrained my feet from every evil way, that I might keep thy word.
I have not departed from thy judgments: for thou hast taught me.
How sweet are thy words unto my taste!  than honey to my mouth!
Through thy precepts I get understanding: therefore I hate every false way.



 
The Lord’s word is a lamp unto our feet.

Thy word  a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path.
I have sworn, and I will perform  that I will keep thy righteous judgments.
I am afflicted very much: quicken me, O , according unto thy word.
Accept, I beseech thee, the freewill offerings of my mouth, O , and teach me thy judgments.
My soul  continually in my hand: yet do I not forget thy law.
The wicked have laid a snare for me: yet I erred not from thy precepts.
Thy testimonies have I taken as an heritage for ever: for they  the rejoicing of my heart.
I have inclined mine heart to perform thy statutes alway,  the end.



 
Depart from evildoers and keep the commandments of God.

I hate  thoughts: but thy law do I love.
Thou  my hiding place and my shield: I hope in thy word.
Depart from me, ye evildoers: for I will keep the commandments of my God.
Uphold me according unto thy word, that I may live: and let me not be ashamed of my hope.
Hold thou me up, and I shall be safe: and I will have respect unto thy statutes continually.
Thou hast trodden down all them that err from thy statutes: for their deceit  falsehood.
Thou puttest away all the wicked of the earth  dross: therefore I love thy testimonies.
My flesh trembleth for fear of thee; and I am afraid of thy judgments.



 
O Lord, we are Thy servants; give us understanding.

I have done judgment and justice: leave me not to mine oppressors.
Be surety for thy servant for good: let not the proud oppress me.
Mine eyes fail for thy salvation, and for the word of thy righteousness.
Deal with thy servant according unto thy mercy, and teach me thy statutes.
I  thy servant; give me understanding, that I may know thy testimonies.
 time for  , to work:  they have made void thy law.
Therefore I love thy commandments above gold; yea, above fine gold.
Therefore I esteem all  precepts  all  right;  I hate every false way.




 
The Lord’s testimonies are wonderful.

Thy testimonies  wonderful: therefore doth my soul keep them.
The entrance of thy words giveth light; it giveth understanding unto the simple.
I opened my mouth, and panted: for I longed for thy commandments.
Look thou upon me, and be merciful unto me, as thou usest to do unto those that love thy name.
Order my steps in thy word: and let not any iniquity have dominion over me.
Deliver me from the oppression of man: so will I keep thy precepts.
Make thy face to shine upon thy servant; and teach me thy statutes.
Rivers of waters run down mine eyes, because they keep not thy law.



 
The Lord’s law is the truth.

Righteous  thou, O , and upright  thy judgments.
Thy testimonies  thou hast commanded  righteous and very faithful.
My zeal hath consumed me, because mine enemies have forgotten thy words.
Thy word  very pure: therefore thy servant loveth it.
I  small and despised:  do not I forget thy precepts.
Thy righteousness  an everlasting righteousness, and thy law  the truth.
Trouble and anguish have taken hold on me:  thy commandments  my delights.
The righteousness of thy testimonies  everlasting: give me understanding, and I shall live.



 
O Lord, hear the voice of Thy servants according to Thy loving kindness.

I cried with  whole heart; hear me, O : I will keep thy statutes.
I cried unto thee; save me, and I shall keep thy testimonies.
I prevented the dawning of the morning, and cried: I hoped in thy word.
Mine eyes prevent the  watches, that I might meditate in thy word.
Hear my voice according unto thy lovingkindness: O , quicken me according to thy judgment.
They draw nigh that follow after mischief: they are far from thy law.
Thou  near, O ; and all thy commandments  truth.
Concerning thy testimonies, I have known of old that thou hast founded them for ever.



 
Great are Thy tender mercies, O Lord.

Consider mine affliction, and deliver me: for I do not forget thy law.
Plead my cause, and deliver me: quicken me according to thy word.
Salvation  far from the wicked: for they seek not thy statutes.
Great  thy tender mercies, O : quicken me according to thy judgments.
Many  my persecutors and mine enemies;  do I not decline from thy testimonies.
I beheld the transgressors, and was grieved; because they kept not thy word.
Consider how I love thy precepts: quicken me, O , according to thy lovingkindness.
Thy word  true  the beginning: and every one of thy righteous judgments  for ever.



 
Those who love the Lord’s law have peace.

Princes have persecuted me without a cause: but my heart standeth in awe of thy word.
I rejoice at thy word, as one that findeth great spoil.
I hate and abhor lying:  thy law do I love.
Seven times a day do I praise thee because of thy righteous judgments.
Great peace have they which love thy law: and nothing shall offend them.
, I have hoped for thy salvation, and done thy commandments.
My soul hath kept thy testimonies; and I love them exceedingly.
I have kept thy precepts and thy testimonies: for all my ways  before thee.



 
All the Lord’s commandments are righteousness.

Let my cry come near before thee, O : give me understanding according to thy word.
Let my supplication come before thee: deliver me according to thy word.
My lips shall utter praise, when thou hast taught me thy statutes.
My tongue shall speak of thy word: for all thy commandments  righteousness.
Let thine hand help me; for I have chosen thy precepts.
I have longed for thy salvation, O ; and thy law  my delight.
Let my soul live, and it shall praise thee; and let thy judgments help me.
I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek thy servant; for I do not forget thy commandments.

