
O give thanks unto the ; for  good: because his mercy  for ever.
Let Israel now say, that his mercy  for ever.
Let the house of Aaron now say, that his mercy  for ever.
Let them now that fear the  say, that his mercy  for ever.
I called upon the  in distress: the  answered me,  in a large place.
The   on my side; I will not fear: what can man do unto me?
The  taketh my part with them that help me: therefore shall I see  upon them that hate me.
 better to trust in the  than to put confidence in man.

 better to trust in the  than to put confidence in princes.
All nations compassed me about: but in the name of the  will I destroy them.
They compassed me about; yea, they compassed me about: but in the name of the  I will destroy them.
They compassed me about like bees; they are quenched as the fire of thorns: for in the name of the  I will destroy them.
Thou hast thrust sore at me that I might fall: but the  helped me.
The   my strength and song, and is become my salvation.
The voice of rejoicing and salvation  in the tabernacles of the righteous: the right hand of the  doeth valiantly.
The right hand of the  is exalted: the right hand of the  doeth valiantly.
I shall not die, but live, and declare the works of the .
The  hath chastened me sore: but he hath not given me over unto death.
Open to me the gates of righteousness: I will go into them,  I will praise the :
This gate of the , into which the righteous shall enter.
I will praise thee: for thou hast heard me, and art become my salvation.
The stone  the builders refused is become the head  of the corner.
This is the ’s doing; it  marvellous in our eyes.
This  the day  the  hath made; we will rejoice and be glad in it.
Save now, I beseech thee, O : O , I beseech thee, send now prosperity.
Blessed  he that cometh in the name of the : we have blessed you out of the house of the .
God  the , which hath shewed us light: bind the sacrifice with cords,  unto the horns of the altar.
Thou  my God, and I will praise thee:  my God, I will exalt thee.
O give thanks unto the ; for  good: for his mercy  for ever.
