
My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?  far from helping me,  the words of my roaring?
O my God, I cry in the daytime, but thou hearest not; and in the night season, and am not silent.
But thou  holy,  that inhabitest the praises of Israel.
Our fathers trusted in thee: they trusted, and thou didst deliver them.
They cried unto thee, and were delivered: they trusted in thee, and were not confounded.
But I  a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and despised of the people.
All they that see me laugh me to scorn: they shoot out the lip, they shake the head, 
He trusted on the   he would deliver him: let him deliver him, seeing he delighted in him.
But thou  he that took me out of the womb: thou didst make me hope  upon my mother’s breasts.
I was cast upon thee from the womb: thou  my God from my mother’s belly.
Be not far from me; for trouble  near; for  none to help.
Many bulls have compassed me: strong  of Bashan have beset me round.
They gaped upon me  their mouths,  a ravening and a roaring lion.
I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint: my heart is like wax; it is melted in the midst of my bowels.
My strength is dried up like a potsherd; and my tongue cleaveth to my jaws; and thou hast brought me into the dust of death.
For dogs have compassed me: the assembly of the wicked have inclosed me: they pierced my hands and my feet.
I may tell all my bones: they look  stare upon me.
They part my garments among them, and cast lots upon my vesture.
But be not thou far from me, O : O my strength, haste thee to help me.
Deliver my soul from the sword; my darling from the power of the dog.
Save me from the lion’s mouth: for thou hast heard me from the horns of the unicorns.

I will declare thy name unto my brethren: in the midst of the congregation will I praise thee.
Ye that fear the , praise him; all ye the seed of Jacob, glorify him; and fear him, all ye the seed of Israel.
For he hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted; neither hath he hid his face from him; but when he cried unto him, he heard.
My praise  of thee in the great congregation: I will pay my vows before them that fear him.
The meek shall eat and be satisfied: they shall praise the  that seek him: your heart shall live for ever.
All the ends of the world shall remember and turn unto the : and all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee.
For the kingdom  the ’s: and he  the governor among the nations.
All  fat upon earth shall eat and worship: all they that go down to the dust shall bow before him: and none can keep alive his own soul.
A seed shall serve him; it shall be accounted to the Lord for a generation.
They shall come, and shall declare his righteousness unto a people that shall be born, that he hath done 
