
Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity.
For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the green herb.
Trust in the , and do good;  shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed.
Delight thyself also in the ; and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart.
Commit thy way unto the ; trust also in him; and he shall bring  to pass.
And he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday.
Rest in the , and wait patiently for him: fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass.
Cease from anger, and forsake wrath: fret not thyself in any wise to do evil.
For evildoers shall be cut off: but those that wait upon the , they shall inherit the earth.
For yet a little while, and the wicked  not  yea, thou shalt diligently consider his place, and it  not 
But the meek shall inherit the earth; and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace.
The wicked plotteth against the just, and gnasheth upon him with his teeth.
The Lord shall laugh at him: for he seeth that his day is coming.
The wicked have drawn out the sword, and have bent their bow, to cast down the poor and needy,  to slay such as be of upright conversation.
Their sword shall enter into their own heart, and their bows shall be broken.
A little that a righteous man hath  better than the riches of many wicked.
For the arms of the wicked shall be broken: but the  upholdeth the righteous.
The  knoweth the days of the upright: and their inheritance shall be for ever.
They shall not be ashamed in the evil time: and in the days of famine they shall be satisfied.
But the wicked shall perish, and the enemies of the   as the fat of lambs: they shall consume; into smoke shall they consume away.
The wicked borroweth, and payeth not again: but the righteous sheweth mercy, and giveth.
For  blessed of him shall inherit the earth; and  cursed of him shall be cut off.
The steps of a  man are ordered by the : and he delighteth in his way.
Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down: for the  upholdeth  his hand.
I have been young, and  am old; yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread.
 ever merciful, and lendeth; and his seed  blessed.
Depart from evil, and do good; and dwell for evermore.
For the  loveth judgment, and forsaketh not his saints; they are preserved for ever: but the seed of the wicked shall be cut off.
The righteous shall inherit the land, and dwell therein for ever.
The mouth of the righteous speaketh wisdom, and his tongue talketh of judgment.
The law of his God  in his heart; none of his steps shall slide.
The wicked watcheth the righteous, and seeketh to slay him.
The  will not leave him in his hand, nor condemn him when he is judged.
Wait on the , and keep his way, and he shall exalt thee to inherit the land: when the wicked are cut off, thou shalt see 
I have seen the wicked in great power, and spreading himself like a green bay tree.
Yet he passed away, and, lo, he  not: yea, I sought him, but he could not be found.
Mark the perfect  and behold the upright: for the end of  man  peace.
But the transgressors shall be destroyed together: the end of the wicked shall be cut off.
But the salvation of the righteous  of the :  their strength in the time of trouble.
And the  shall help them, and deliver them: he shall deliver them from the wicked, and save them, because they trust in him.
