
Give ear to my prayer, O God; and hide not thyself from my supplication.
Attend unto me, and hear me: I mourn in my complaint, and make a noise;
Because of the voice of the enemy, because of the oppression of the wicked: for they cast iniquity upon me, and in wrath they hate me.
My heart is sore pained within me: and the terrors of death are fallen upon me.
Fearfulness and trembling are come upon me, and horror hath overwhelmed me.
And I said, Oh that I had wings like a dove!  would I fly away, and be at rest.
Lo,  would I wander far off,  remain in the wilderness. .
I would hasten my escape from the windy storm  tempest.
Destroy, O Lord,  divide their tongues: for I have seen violence and strife in the city.
Day and night they go about it upon the walls thereof: mischief also and sorrow  in the midst of it.
Wickedness  in the midst thereof: deceit and guile depart not from her streets.
For  not an enemy  reproached me; then I could have borne  neither  he that hated me  did magnify  against me; then I would have hid myself from him:
But  thou, a man mine equal, my guide, and mine acquaintance.

We took sweet counsel together,  walked unto the house of God in company.
Let death seize upon them,  let them go down quick into hell: for wickedness  in their dwellings,  among them.
As for me, I will call upon God; and the  shall save me.
Evening, and morning, and at noon, will I pray, and cry aloud: and he shall hear my voice.
He hath delivered my soul in peace from the battle  against me: for there were many with me.
God shall hear, and afflict them, even he that abideth of old. . Because they have no changes, therefore they fear not God.
He hath put forth his hands against such as be at peace with him: he hath broken his covenant.
 of his mouth were smoother than butter, but war  in his heart: his words were softer than oil, yet  they drawn swords.
Cast thy burden upon the , and he shall sustain thee: he shall never suffer the righteous to be moved.
But thou, O God, shalt bring them down into the pit of destruction: bloody and deceitful men shall not live out half their days; but I will trust in thee.
