
Let God arise, let his enemies be scattered: let them also that hate him flee before him.
As smoke is driven away,  drive  away: as wax melteth before the fire,  let the wicked perish at the presence of God.
But let the righteous be glad; let them rejoice before God: yea, let them exceedingly rejoice.
Sing unto God, sing praises to his name: extol him that rideth upon the heavens by his name , and rejoice before him.
A father of the fatherless, and a judge of the widows,  God in his holy habitation.
God setteth the solitary in families: he bringeth out those which are bound with chains: but the rebellious dwell in a dry 
O God, when thou wentest forth before thy people, when thou didst march through the wilderness; :
The earth shook, the heavens also dropped at the presence of God:  Sinai itself  at the presence of God, the God of Israel.
Thou, O God, didst send a plentiful rain, whereby thou didst confirm thine inheritance, when it was weary.
Thy congregation hath dwelt therein: thou, O God, hast prepared of thy goodness for the poor.
The Lord gave the word: great  the company of those that published 

Kings of armies did flee apace: and she that tarried at home divided the spoil.
Though ye have lien among the pots,  the wings of a dove covered with silver, and her feathers with yellow gold.
When the Almighty scattered kings in it, it was  as snow in Salmon.
The hill of God  the hill of Bashan; an high hill  the hill of Bashan.
Why leap ye, ye high hills?  the hill  God desireth to dwell in; yea, the  will dwell  for ever.
The chariots of God  twenty thousand,  thousands of angels: the Lord  among them,  Sinai, in the holy 
Thou hast ascended on high, thou hast led captivity captive: thou hast received gifts for men; yea,  the rebellious also, that the  God might dwell 
Blessed  the Lord,  daily loadeth us  the God of our salvation. .
 our God  the God of salvation; and unto  the Lord  the issues from death.
But God shall wound the head of his enemies,  the hairy scalp of such an one as goeth on still in his trespasses.
The Lord said, I will bring again from Bashan, I will bring  again from the depths of the sea:
That thy foot may be dipped in the blood of  enemies,  the tongue of thy dogs in the same.
They have seen thy goings, O God;  the goings of my God, my King, in the sanctuary.
The singers went before, the players on instruments  after; among  the damsels playing with timbrels.
Bless ye God in the congregations,  the Lord, from the fountain of Israel.
There  little Benjamin  their ruler, the princes of Judah  their council, the princes of Zebulun,  the princes of Naphtali.
Thy God hath commanded thy strength: strengthen, O God, that which thou hast wrought for us.
Because of thy temple at Jerusalem shall kings bring presents unto thee.
Rebuke the company of spearmen, the multitude of the bulls, with the calves of the people,  submit himself with pieces of silver: scatter thou the people  delight in war.
Princes shall come out of Egypt; Ethiopia shall soon stretch out her hands unto God.
Sing unto God, ye kingdoms of the earth; O sing praises unto the Lord; :
To him that rideth upon the heavens of heavens,  of old; lo, he doth send out his voice,  a mighty voice.
Ascribe ye strength unto God: his excellency  over Israel, and his strength  in the clouds.
O God,  terrible out of thy holy places: the God of Israel  he that giveth strength and power unto  people. Blessed  God.
