
Truly God  good to Israel,  to such as are of a clean heart.
But as for me, my feet were almost gone; my steps had well nigh slipped.
For I was envious at the foolish,  I saw the prosperity of the wicked.
For  no bands in their death: but their strength  firm.
They  not in trouble  men; neither are they plagued like  men.
Therefore pride compasseth them about as a chain; violence covereth them  a garment.
Their eyes stand out with fatness: they have more than heart could wish.
They are corrupt, and speak wickedly  oppression: they speak loftily.
They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue walketh through the earth.
Therefore his people return hither: and waters of a full  are wrung out to them.
And they say, How doth God know? and is there knowledge in the most High?
Behold, these  the ungodly, who prosper in the world; they increase  riches.
Verily I have cleansed my heart  vain, and washed my hands in innocency.
For all the day long have I been plagued, and chastened every morning.
If I say, I will speak thus; behold, I should offend  the generation of thy children.
When I thought to know this, it  too painful for me;
Until I went into the sanctuary of God;  understood I their end.
Surely thou didst set them in slippery places: thou castedst them down into destruction.
How are they  into desolation, as in a moment! they are utterly consumed with terrors.
As a dream when  awaketh;  O Lord, when thou awakest, thou shalt despise their image.
Thus my heart was grieved, and I was pricked in my reins.
So foolish  I, and ignorant: I was  a beast before thee.
Nevertheless I  continually with thee: thou hast holden  by my right hand.
Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel, and afterward receive me  glory.
Whom have I in heaven  and  none upon earth  I desire beside thee.
My flesh and my heart faileth:  God  the strength of my heart, and my portion for ever.
For, lo, they that are far from thee shall perish: thou hast destroyed all them that go a whoring from thee.
But  good for me to draw near to God: I have put my trust in the Lord , that I may declare all thy works.
