
Then went Boaz up to the gate, and sat him down there: and, behold, the kinsman of whom Boaz spake came by; unto whom he said, Ho, such a one! turn aside, sit down here. And he turned aside, and sat down.
And he took ten men of the elders of the city, and said, Sit ye down here. And they sat down.
And he said unto the kinsman, Naomi, that is come again out of the country of Moab, selleth a parcel of land, which  our brother Elimelech’s:
And I thought to advertise thee, saying, Buy  before the inhabitants, and before the elders of my people. If thou wilt redeem  redeem  but if thou wilt not redeem  tell me, that I may know: for  none to redeem  beside thee; and I  after thee. And he said, I will redeem 
Then said Boaz, What day thou buyest the field of the hand of Naomi, thou must buy  also of Ruth the Moabitess, the wife of the dead, to raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance.
And the kinsman said, I cannot redeem  for myself, lest I mar mine own inheritance: redeem thou my right to thyself; for I cannot redeem 
Now this  in former time in Israel concerning redeeming and concerning changing, for to confirm all things; a man plucked off his shoe, and gave  to his neighbour: and this  a testimony in Israel.
Therefore the kinsman said unto Boaz, Buy  for thee. So he drew off his shoe.
And Boaz said unto the elders, and  all the people, Ye  witnesses this day, that I have bought all that  Elimelech’s, and all that  Chilion’s and Mahlon’s, of the hand of Naomi.
Moreover Ruth the Moabitess, the wife of Mahlon, have I purchased to be my wife, to raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance, that the name of the dead be not cut off from among his brethren, and from the gate of his place: ye  witnesses this day.
And all the people that  in the gate, and the elders, said,  witnesses. The  make the woman that is come into thine house like Rachel and like Leah, which two did build the house of Israel: and do thou worthily in Ephratah, and be famous in Beth-lehem:
And let thy house be like the house of Pharez, whom Tamar bare unto Judah, of the seed which the  shall give thee of this young woman.
So Boaz took Ruth, and she was his wife: and when he went in unto her, the  gave her conception, and she bare a son.
And the women said unto Naomi, Blessed  the , which hath not left thee this day without a kinsman, that his name may be famous in Israel.
And he shall be unto thee a restorer of  life, and a nourisher of thine old age: for thy daughter in law, which loveth thee, which is better to thee than seven sons, hath born him.
And Naomi took the child, and laid it in her bosom, and became nurse unto it.
And the women her neighbours gave it a name, saying, There is a son born to Naomi; and they called his name Obed: he  the father of Jesse, the father of David.
Now these  the generations of Pharez: Pharez begat Hezron,
And Hezron begat Ram, and Ram begat Amminadab,
And Amminadab begat Nahshon, and Nahshon begat Salmon,
And Salmon begat Boaz, and Boaz begat Obed,
And Obed begat Jesse, and Jesse begat David.
