
In the eighth month, in the second year of Darius, came the word of the  unto Zechariah, the son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo the prophet, saying,
The  hath been sore displeased with your fathers.
Therefore say thou unto them, Thus saith the  of hosts; Turn ye unto me, saith the  of hosts, and I will turn unto you, saith the  of hosts.
Be ye not as your fathers, unto whom the former prophets have cried, saying, Thus saith the  of hosts; Turn ye now from your evil ways, and  your evil doings: but they did not hear, nor hearken unto me, saith the .
Your fathers, where  they? and the prophets, do they live for ever?
But my words and my statutes, which I commanded my servants the prophets, did they not take hold of your fathers? and they returned and said, Like as the  of hosts thought to do unto us, according to our ways, and according to our doings, so hath he dealt with us.
Upon the four and twentieth day of the eleventh month, which  the month Sebat, in the second year of Darius, came the word of the  unto Zechariah, the son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo the prophet, saying,
I saw by night, and behold a man riding upon a red horse, and he stood among the myrtle trees that  in the bottom; and behind him  red horses, speckled, and white.
Then said I, O my lord, what  these? And the angel that talked with me said unto me, I will shew thee what these 
And the man that stood among the myrtle trees answered and said, These  whom the  hath sent to walk to and fro through the earth.
And they answered the angel of the  that stood among the myrtle trees, and said, We have walked to and fro through the earth, and, behold, all the earth sitteth still, and is at rest.
Then the angel of the  answered and said, O  of hosts, how long wilt thou not have mercy on Jerusalem and on the cities of Judah, against which thou hast had indignation these threescore and ten years?
And the  answered the angel that talked with me  good words  comfortable words.
So the angel that communed with me said unto me, Cry thou, saying, Thus saith the  of hosts; I am jealous for Jerusalem and for Zion with a great jealousy.
And I am very sore displeased with the heathen  at ease: for I was but a little displeased, and they helped forward the affliction.
Therefore thus saith the ; I am returned to Jerusalem with mercies: my house shall be built in it, saith the  of hosts, and a line shall be stretched forth upon Jerusalem.
Cry yet, saying, Thus saith the  of hosts; My cities through prosperity shall yet be spread abroad; and the  shall yet comfort Zion, and shall yet choose Jerusalem.
Then lifted I up mine eyes, and saw, and behold four horns.
And I said unto the angel that talked with me, What  these? And he answered me, These  the horns which have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem.
And the  shewed me four carpenters.
Then said I, What come these to do? And he spake, saying, These  the horns which have scattered Judah, so that no man did lift up his head: but these are come to fray them, to cast out the horns of the Gentiles, which lifted up  horn over the land of Judah to scatter it.
