
Do we begin again to commend ourselves? or need we, as some  epistles of commendation to you, or  of commendation from you?
Ye are our epistle written in our hearts, known and read of all men:
 manifestly declared to be the epistle of Christ ministered by us, written not with ink, but with the Spirit of the living God; not in tables of stone, but in fleshy tables of the heart.
And such trust have we through Christ to God-ward:
Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think any thing as of ourselves; but our sufficiency  of God;
Who also hath made us able ministers of the new testament; not of the letter, but of the spirit: for the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life.
But if the ministration of death, written  engraven in stones, was glorious, so that the children of Israel could not steadfastly behold the face of Moses for the glory of his countenance; which  was to be done away:
How shall not the ministration of the spirit be rather glorious?
For if the ministration of condemnation  glory, much more doth the ministration of righteousness exceed in glory.
For even that which was made glorious had no glory in this respect, by reason of the glory that excelleth.
For if that which is done away  glorious, much more that which remaineth  glorious.
Seeing then that we have such hope, we use great plainness of speech:
And not as Moses,  put a veil over his face, that the children of Israel could not steadfastly look to the end of that which is abolished:
But their minds were blinded: for until this day remaineth the same veil untaken away in the reading of the old testament; which  is done away in Christ.
But even unto this day, when Moses is read, the veil is upon their heart.
Nevertheless when it shall turn to the Lord, the veil shall be taken away.
Now the Lord is that Spirit: and where the Spirit of the Lord  there  liberty.
But we all, with open face beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same image from glory to glory,  as by the Spirit of the Lord.
