
Now in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Cæsar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judæa, and Herod being tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip tetrarch of Ituræa and of the region of Trachonitis, and Lysanias the tetrarch of Abilene,
Annas and Caiaphas being the high priests, the word of God came unto John the son of Zacharias in the wilderness.
And he came into all the country about Jordan, preaching the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins;
As it is written in the book of the words of Esaias the prophet, saying, The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight.
Every valley shall be filled, and every mountain and hill shall be brought low; and the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough ways  made smooth;
And all flesh shall see the salvation of God.
Then said he to the multitude that came forth to be baptized of him, O generation of vipers, who hath warned you to flee from the wrath to come?
Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance, and begin not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham to  father: for I say unto you, That God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham.
And now also the axe is laid unto the root of the trees: every tree therefore which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire.
And the people asked him, saying, What shall we do then?
He answereth and saith unto them, He that hath two coats, let him impart to him that hath none; and he that hath meat, let him do likewise.
Then came also publicans to be baptized, and said unto him, Master, what shall we do?
And he said unto them, Exact no more than that which is appointed you.
And the soldiers likewise demanded of him, saying, And what shall we do? And he said unto them, Do violence to no man, neither accuse  falsely; and be content with your wages.
And as the people were in expectation, and all men mused in their hearts of John, whether he were the Christ, or not;
John answered, saying unto  all, I indeed baptize you with water; but one mightier than I cometh, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to unloose: he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire:
Whose fan  in his hand, and he will throughly purge his floor, and will gather the wheat into his garner; but the chaff he will burn with fire unquenchable.
And many other things in his exhortation preached he unto the people.
But Herod the tetrarch, being reproved by him for Herodias his brother Philip’s wife, and for all the evils which Herod had done,
Added yet this above all, that he shut up John in prison.
Now when all the people were baptized, it came to pass, that Jesus also being baptized, and praying, the heaven was opened,
And the Holy Ghost descended in a bodily shape like a dove upon him, and a voice came from heaven, which said, Thou art my beloved Son; in thee I am well pleased.
And Jesus himself began to be about thirty years of age, being (as was supposed) the son of Joseph, which was  of Heli,
Which was  of Matthat, which was  of Levi, which was  of Melchi, which was  of Janna, which was  of Joseph,
Which was  of Mattathias, which was  of Amos, which was  of Naum, which was  of Esli, which was  of Nagge,
Which was  of Maath, which was  of Mattathias, which was  of Semei, which was  of Joseph, which was  of Juda,
Which was  of Joanna, which was  of Rhesa, which was  of Zorobabel, which was  of Salathiel, which was  of Neri,
Which was  of Melchi, which was  of Addi, which was  of Cosam, which was  of Elmodam, which was  of Er,
Which was  of Jose, which was  of Eliezer, which was  of Jorim, which was  of Matthat, which was  of Levi,
Which was  of Simeon, which was  of Juda, which was  of Joseph, which was  of Jonan, which was  of Eliakim,
Which was  of Melea, which was  of Menan, which was  of Mattatha, which was  of Nathan, which was  of David,
Which was  of Jesse, which was  of Obed, which was  of Booz, which was  of Salmon, which was  of Naasson,
Which was  of Aminadab, which was  of Aram, which was  of Esrom, which was  of Phares, which was  of Juda,
Which was  of Jacob, which was  of Isaac, which was  of Abraham, which was  of Thara, which was  of Nachor,
Which was  of Saruch, which was  of Ragau, which was  of Phalec, which was  of Heber, which was  of Sala,
Which was  of Cainan, which was  of Arphaxad, which was  of Sem, which was  of Noe, which was  of Lamech,
Which was  of Mathusala, which was  of Enoch, which was  of Jared, which was  of Maleleel, which was  of Cainan,
Which was  of Enos, which was  of Seth, which was  of Adam, which was  of God.
