
I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God,  your reasonable service.
And be not conformed to this world: but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what  that good, and acceptable, and perfect, will of God.
For I say, through the grace given unto me, to every man that is among you, not to think  more highly than he ought to think; but to think soberly, according as God hath dealt to every man the measure of faith.
For as we have many members in one body, and all members have not the same office:
So we,  many, are one body in Christ, and every one members one of another.
Having then gifts differing according to the grace that is given to us, whether prophecy,  according to the proportion of faith;
Or ministry,  on  ministering: or he that teacheth, on teaching;
Or he that exhorteth, on exhortation: he that giveth,  with simplicity; he that ruleth, with diligence; he that sheweth mercy, with cheerfulness.
 love be without dissimulation. Abhor that which is evil; cleave to that which is good.
 kindly affectioned one to another with brotherly love; in honour preferring one another;
Not slothful in business; fervent in spirit; serving the Lord;
Rejoicing in hope; patient in tribulation; continuing instant in prayer;
Distributing to the necessity of saints; given to hospitality.
Bless them which persecute you: bless, and curse not.
Rejoice with them that do rejoice, and weep with them that weep.
 of the same mind one toward another. Mind not high things, but condescend to men of low estate. Be not wise in your own conceits.
Recompense to no man evil for evil. Provide things honest in the sight of all men.
If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men.
Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but  give place unto wrath: for it is written, Vengeance  mine; I will repay, saith the Lord.
Therefore if thine enemy hunger, feed him; if he thirst, give him drink: for in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head.
Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good.
